12:1: “At that time Michael the great prince, who stands watch over the sons of your people, shall stand up; and there shall be a time of tribulation, such as never happened until that time, since there was a nation upon the earth. But at that time your people shall be saved, all found written in the book. 
12:2: Then many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to disgrace and everlasting shame. 
12:3: Those who understand shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and some who are righteous, like the stars of heaven forever and ever. 
12:4: As for you, Daniel, close up these words and seal the book until the time of the end, until many are taught and knowledge is increased.” 
12:5: Then I, Daniel, looked and behold, there stood two others, one on this riverbank and the other on the other riverbank. 
12:6: One said to the man clothed in fine linen who was above the water of the river, “How long will it be to the end of these wonders of which You have spoken?” 
12:7: Then I heard from the man clothed in fine linen who was above the water of the river, as he held up his right hand and his left hand to heaven and swore by Him who lives forever that it would be for a time, times, and half a time. Thus when the dispersion is ended, they shall know all these things. 
12:8: Although I heard, I did not understand. So I said, “My lord, what shall be the end of these things?” 
12:9: He replied, “Go your way, Daniel, for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end. 
12:10: Many shall choose to be made white and refined through fire; but the lawless shall act lawlessly. None of the lawless shall understand, but the wise shall understand. 
12:11: From the time the daily sacrifice is taken away and the abomination of desolation is set up, there shall be one thousand two hundred and ninety days. 
12:12: Blessed is he who waits and comes to one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days. 
12:13: But now, go your way and rest, for there are yet days to the fulfillment of the end; and you shall arise to your inheritance at the end of the days.”

