21:1: Now Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel. 
21:2: So David said to Joab and to the leaders of the people, “Go, number Israel from Beersheba to Dan, and bring the number of them to me that I may know it.” 
21:3: And Joab said, “May the Lord add to His people a hundredfold as many as they are, and let the eyes of my lord the king see all who are the servants of my lord. Why does my lord seek this? Do not allow it, lest it become a sin to Israel.” 
21:4: Nevertheless the king’s word prevailed against Joab. Therefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem. 
21:5: Then Joab gave the sum of the number of the people to David. All Israel had one million one hundred thousand men who drew the sword, and Judah had four hundred and eighty thousand men who drew the sword. 
21:6: But he did not count Levi and Benjamin among them, for the king’s word was painful to Joab. 
21:7: And this deed appeared wicked before God; therefore He struck Israel. 
21:8: So David said to God, “I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing; but now, I pray, take away the iniquity of Your servant, for I have done very foolishly.” 
21:9: Then the Lord spoke to Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
21:10: “Go and tell David, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord: “I offer you three things; so choose one of them for yourself, that I may do it to you.” ’ ” 
21:11: So Gad came to David and said to him, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Choose for yourself: 
21:12: either three years of famine, or that you flee for three months from the face of your enemies and the sword of your enemies utterly destroying you, or that for three days the sword of the Lord and pestilence should be with you in the land, and the angel of the Lord destroying the territory throughout all the inheritance of Israel.’ Now consider what answer I should take back to Him who sent me.” 
21:13: And David said to Gad, “Groan for me and for the three exceedingly. Please let me fall into the hand of the Lord, for His mercies are very great, but do not let me fall into the hand of man.” 
21:14: So the Lord sent a plague upon Israel, and seventy thousand men of Israel fell. 
21:15: And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it. As he was destroying, the Lord looked and relented of the disaster, and said to the angel who was destroying, “It is enough; now restrain your hand.” And the angel of the Lord stood by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
21:16: Then David lifted his eyes and saw the angel of the Lord standing between earth and heaven, having in his hand a drawn sword stretched out over Jerusalem. So David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell on their faces. 
21:17: And David said to God, “Was it not I who commanded the people to be numbered? I am the one who has sinned and done evil indeed; but these sheep, what have they done? Let Your hand, I pray, O Lord my God, be against me and my father’s house, but not against Your people that they should be plagued.” 
21:18: Therefore, the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David that David should go and erect an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
21:19: And David went up according to the word of God, which he had spoken in the name of the Lord. 
21:20: Now Ornan turned and saw the king, and he and his four sons with him hid themselves, but Ornan was threshing wheat. 
21:21: So David came to Ornan, and Ornan looked and saw David. And he went out from the threshing floor, bowing before David with his face to the ground. 
21:22: Then David said to Ornan, “Grant me the place of this threshing floor, that I may build an altar on it to the Lord. You shall grant it to me at the full price, that the plague may be withdrawn from the people.” 
21:23: But Ornan said to David, “Take it to yourself, and let my lord the king do what is good in his eyes. Look, I also give you the oxen for whole burnt offerings, the threshing implements for wood, and the wheat for the grain offering; I give it all.” 
21:24: Then King David said to Ornan, “No, but I will surely buy it for the full price, for I will not take what is yours for the Lord, nor offer whole burnt offerings with that which costs me nothing.” 
21:25: So David gave six hundred shekels of gold by weight for his place. 
21:26: And there David built an altar to the Lord, and offered whole burnt offerings and peace offerings, and cried out to the Lord; and He answered him by fire from heaven upon the altar of whole burnt offering and consumed the whole burnt offering. 
21:27: So the Lord commanded the angel, and he returned his sword to its sheath. 
21:28: At that time, when David saw that the Lord had answered him, he sacrificed there on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
21:29: For the tabernacle of the Lord that Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the whole burnt offering, were in the high place at Gibeon at the appointed time. 
21:30: But David was unable to go before it to seek God, for the sword of the angel of the Lord prevented him.

