5:1: Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel. He was indeed the firstborn, but his father gave his blessing to his son Joseph, the son of Israel, because Reuben climbed onto his father’s bed, so that the genealogy is not listed according to the birthright; 
5:2: for Judah was able to prevail over his brothers, and from him came a ruler, although the blessing was Joseph’s. 
5:3: The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
5:4: The sons of Joel were Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son, 
5:5: Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son, 
5:6: and Beerah his son, whom Tiglath-Pileser, king of Assyria, carried into captivity. He was leader of the Reubenites. 
5:7: And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was registered: the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah, 
5:8: and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer, as far as Nebo and Baal-Meon. 
5:9: And because their flocks were many in the land of Gilead, they settled eastward, as far as the entrance of the wilderness on this side of the River Euphrates. 
5:10: Now in the days of Saul they made war with the sojourners, and those who dwelt in tents throughout the entire area east of Gilead fell by their hand. 
5:11: The children of Gad dwelt next to them in the land of Bashan as far as Salcah: 
5:12: Joel was the chief, Shapham the next, then Jaanai and Shaphat in Bashan, 
5:13: and their brethren according to the house of their fathers: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jachan, Zia, and Eber, seven in all. 
5:14: These were the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz; 
5:15: Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was chief of their fathers’ house. 
5:16: And the Gadites dwelt in Gilead, in Bashan and in its villages, and in all the common lands of Sharon within their borders. 
5:17: All these were registered by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel. 
5:18: The sons of Reuben, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh had forty-four thousand seven hundred sixty valiant men able to bear shield and sword, to shoot with the bow, and who were skillful in war. 
5:19: They made war with the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab. 
5:20: And they prevailed against them, and the Hagrites and all their encampments were delivered into their hand; for they cried out to God in the battle, and He heeded them, for they hoped in Him. 
5:21: Then they took away fifty thousand of their camels, two hundred fifty thousand of their sheep, and two thousand of their donkeys, also one hundred thousand of their men; 
5:22: for many fell dead, because the war was of God. And they dwelt in their place until the captivity. 
5:23: And the half-tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land from Bashan to Baal-Hermon, and Senir to Mount Hermon. 
5:24: These were the heads of the houses of their fathers: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel. They were mighty men of valor, of fame, who were heads of the houses of their fathers. 
5:25: But they were unfaithful to the God of their fathers and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them. 
5:26: So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, that is, Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria. He carried the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh into captivity. He took them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and the river of Gozan to this day. 
5:27: The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
5:28: The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
5:29: The children of Amram were Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
5:30: Eleazar begot Phinehas, and Phinehas begot Abishua; 
5:31: Abishua begot Bukki, and Bukki begot Uzzi; 
5:32: Uzzi begot Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begot Meraioth; 
5:33: Meraioth begot Amariah, and Amariah begot Ahitub; 
5:34: Ahitub begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Ahimaaz; 
5:35: Ahimaaz begot Azariah, and Azariah begot Johanan; 
5:36: Johanan begot Azariah: it was he who ministered as priest in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem. 
5:37: Azariah begot Amariah, and Amariah begot Ahitub; 
5:38: Ahitub begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Shallum; 
5:39: Shallum begot Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begot Azariah; 
5:40: Azariah begot Seraiah, and Seraiah begot Jehozadak. 
5:41: Jehozadak went into captivity when the Lord carried Judah and Jerusalem into captivity by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

