17:1: Now it came to pass when David was dwelling in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, “See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under tent curtains.” 
17:2: Then Nathan said to David, “Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you.” 
17:3: But it happened that night that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 
17:4: “Go and tell My servant David, ‘Thus says the Lord, “You shall not build Me a house to dwell in, 
17:5: for I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought up Israel until this day; but I was in a tabernacle, even a tent, 
17:6: in all the places through which I went with all Israel. Have I ever spoken to one leader of Israel whom I appointed to shepherd my people, saying, ‘Why have you not built me a house made of cedar?’ ” ’ 
17:7: “Now therefore, you shall say this day to My servant David, ‘Thus says the Lord Almighty, “I took you from the sheepfold, from following the flock, to be ruler over My people Israel. 
17:8: And I was with you wherever you have gone, and cut off all your enemies from before you, and made you a name like the name of the great men who are on the earth. 
17:9: Moreover, I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own and move no more; nor shall the sons of wickedness oppress them anymore, as previously, 
17:10: and from the days when I appointed judges to be over My people Israel. Also I will subdue all your enemies, and I will increase you, and the Lord will build you a house. 
17:11: It shall be when your days are fulfilled, and you shall be laid to rest with your fathers, that I will set up your seed after you, he who will be out of your belly; I will establish his kingdom. 
17:12: He shall build Me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. 
17:13: I will be his Father, and he shall be My son; and I will not take My mercy from him, as I took it from those who were before you. 
17:14: And I will establish him in My house and in My kingdom forever; his throne shall be established forever.” ’ ” 
17:15: So Nathan spoke to David according to all these words and according to all his vision. 
17:16: Then King David went in and sat before the Lord, and said, “O Lord God, who am I? And what is my house, that You have loved me forever? 
17:17: O God, these things are insignificant in Your presence. O Lord God, You spoke about the house of Your servant from long ago, and have looked upon me as a man looks upon his fellow, and exalted me. 
17:18: Yet what will David add that would bring glory to You? For You know Your servant. 
17:19: And according to Your own heart, You have done all this greatness. 
17:20: O Lord, according to all we have heard with our ears, there is none like You, nor is there any God besides You. 
17:21: There is not another nation upon the earth such as Your people Israel, whereas God led him in the way, to redeem a people for Himself, to establish for Himself a great and glorious name, to cast out nations from before Your people whom You redeemed out of Egypt. 
17:22: For You have appointed Your people Israel Your very own people forever; and You, O Lord, became God to them. 
17:23: “And now, O Lord, the word which You have spoken regarding Your servant and upon his house, let it be guaranteed forever, 
17:24: saying, ‘O Lord, O Lord, the Almighty is the God of Israel.’ And the house of Your servant David has been set aright before You. 
17:25: For You, O my God, have revealed to Your servant that You will build him a house. Therefore Your servant has found it in his heart to pray before You. 
17:26: And now, Lord, You are God, and have promised this goodness to Your servant. 
17:27: And now You have started to bless the house of Your servant, so it may continue before You forever. O Lord, You blessed it, and bless it forever.”

