18:1: After this it came to pass that David attacked the Philistines, subdued them, and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines. 
18:2: Then he struck Moab, and the children of Moab brought tribute to David. 
18:3: And David struck Hadadezer, king of Zobah Hamath, as he went to establish his power by the River Euphrates. 
18:4: David took from them in advance one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. Moreover, David disabled all the chariots—but one hundred chariots were kept in reserve for them. 
18:5: When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand of the Syrians. 
18:6: Then David put a garrison in Damascus of Syria; and the Syrians became David’s servants and brought tribute. So the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 
18:7: And David took the collars of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
18:8: Also from those places passed over and from the chosen cities of Hadadezer, David brought a large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze Sea, the pillars, and the articles of bronze. 
18:9: Now when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 
18:10: he sent Hadoram his son, to King David to ask him for peace and to bless him because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Hadadezer was an enemy of Tou, and with him he sent all kinds of articles of silver and gold. 
18:11: These King David also dedicated to the Lord, along with the silver and gold he had brought from all these nations, from Edom, from Moab, from the people of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
18:12: Moreover, Abishai the son of Zeruiah killed eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 
18:13: He also put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David’s servants. And the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 
18:14: David reigned over all Israel, and administered judgment and justice to all his people. 
18:15: Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
18:16: Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests; Shavsha was the scribe; 
18:17: Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were the king’s first successors.

