12:1: Now these were the men who came to David at Ziklag while he was still a fugitive from Saul the son of Kish. They were among the mighty men, helpers in the war, 
12:2: being armed with bows for shooting arrows and using either the right hand or the left for slinging stones. They were of Benjamin, Saul’s brethren. 
12:3: The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; Jeziel and Pelet the sons of Azmaveth; Berachah and Jehu the Anathothite; 
12:4: Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty; 
12:5: Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, and Jozabad the Gederathite; 
12:6: Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite; 
12:7: Elkanah, Jisshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites; 
12:8: and Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
12:9: Some Gadites joined David in the wilderness, strong, mighty men of war, men trained for battle, who could handle shield and spear, whose faces were like the faces of lions and who were as swift as gazelles on the mountains: 
12:10: Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 
12:11: Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 
12:12: Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 
12:13: Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
12:14: Jeremiah the tenth, and Machbanai the eleventh. 
12:15: These were from the sons of Gad, captains of the army; the least was over a hundred, and the greatest was over a thousand. 
12:16: These are the ones who crossed the Jordan in the first month, when it had overflowed all its banks; and they put to flight all those in the valleys, to the east and to the west. 
12:17: Then some of the sons of Benjamin and Judah came to aid David at the stronghold. 
12:18: David went out and met them, and addressed them by saying, “If you have come peaceably to me to help me, my heart will be united with you; but if to betray me to my enemies, since there is no guile in my hands, may the God of our fathers observe and bring judgment.” 
12:19: And the Spirit came upon Amasai, a captain of the thirty, and he said: “Go, you and your people, David, son of Jesse, Peace, peace be to you, And peace to your helpers, For your God has helped you.” And David received them and made them captains of the forces. 
12:20: And some from Manasseh defected to David when he was going with the Philistines to battle against Saul; but they did not help them, for the lords of the Philistines sent him away by agreement, saying, “He may defect to his master Saul and endanger our heads.” 
12:21: When he went to Ziklag, those of Manasseh who defected to him were Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, captains of the thousands who were from Manasseh. 
12:22: And they helped David against the bands of raiders, for they were all mighty men of valor, and they were captains in the army. 
12:23: For at that time they came to David day by day to help him, until it was a great army, like the army of God. 
12:24: Now these were the numbers of the divisions that were equipped for war and that came to David at Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul over to him, according to the word of the Lord: 
12:25: of the sons of Judah bearing shield and spear, six thousand eight hundred armed for war; 
12:26: of the sons of Simeon, mighty men of valor fit for war, seven thousand one hundred; 
12:27: of the sons of Levi, four thousand six hundred; 
12:28: Jehoiada, the leader of the Aaronites, and with him three thousand seven hundred; 
12:29: Zadok, a young man, a valiant warrior, and from his father’s house, twenty-two captains; 
12:30: of the sons of Benjamin, relatives of Saul, three thousand—until then the greatest part of them had remained loyal to the house of Saul; 
12:31: of the sons of Ephraim, twenty thousand eight hundred mighty men of valor, noted men throughout the house of their fathers; 
12:32: of the half-tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand who were designated by name to come and make David king; 
12:33: of the sons of Issachar who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, their chiefs were two hundred, and all their brethren were at their command; 
12:34: of Zebulun, there were fifty thousand who went out to battle, expert in war with all weapons of war, stouthearted men who could keep ranks; 
12:35: of Naphtali, one thousand captains, and with them thirty-seven thousand with shield and spear; 
12:36: of the Danites who could keep battle formation, twentyeight thousand six hundred; 
12:37: of Asher, those who could go out to war, able to keep battle formation, forty thousand; 
12:38: of the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh, from the other side of the Jordan, one hundred twenty thousand armed for battle with every kind of weapon of war. 
12:39: All these men of war who could keep ranks came to Hebron with a loyal heart, to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest of Israel were of one mind to make David king. 
12:40: All these men of war who could keep ranks in a peaceful spirit came to Hebron to make David king over all Israel; and they were there with David three days, eating and drinking, for their brethren had prepared for them. 
12:41: Moreover those who were near to them, from as far away as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, were bringing food on donkeys and camels, on mules and oxen; provisions of flour, cakes of figs, cakes of raisins, wine, oil, and oxen and sheep abundantly, for there was joy in Israel.

