7:1: The sons of Issachar were Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four in all. 
7:2: The sons of Tola were Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of the houses of their fathers. Strong in power, their number in the days of David was twenty-two thousand six hundred, according to their generations. 
7:3: The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah, and the sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Ishiah. All five of them were chief men. 
7:4: And with them, by their generations, according to the houses of their fathers, were thirty-six thousand troops ready for war; for they had many wives and sons. 
7:5: Now their brethren among all the families of Issachar were mighty men of valor: listed by their genealogies, they were eightyseven thousand in all. 
7:6: The sons of Benjamin were Bela, Becher, and Jediael, three in all. 
7:7: The sons of Bela were Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, five in all. They were heads of houses of families—influential men—and their number was twenty-two thousand thirty-four. 
7:8: The sons of Becher were Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jerimoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher. 
7:9: As heads of the houses of their fathers—men of influence—they numbered twenty thousand two hundred, according to their generations. 
7:10: The son of Jediael was Bilhan, and the sons of Bilhan were Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tharshish, and Ahishahar. 
7:11: All these sons of Jediael were heads of the houses of their fathers’ houses; there were seventeen thousand two hundred men, strong in strength, fit to go out for war and battle. 
7:12: Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir. Hushim was the son of Aher. 
7:13: The sons of Naphtali were Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah. 
7:14: The descendants of Manasseh: his Syrian concubine bore him Machir the father of Gilead, the father of Asriel. 
7:15: Machir took as his wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose name was Maachah. The name of Gilead’s grandson was Zelophehad, but Zelophehad begot only daughters. 
7:16: Maachah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh. The name of his brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem. 
7:17: The son of Ulam was Bedan. These were the descendants of Gilead the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh. 
7:18: His sister Hammoleketh bore Ishhod, Abiezer, and Mahlah. 
7:19: The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam. 
7:20: The sons of Ephraim were Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eladah his son, Tahath his son, 
7:21: Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead. The men of Gath who were born in that land killed them because they came down to take away their cattle. 
7:22: Then Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him. 
7:23: And when he went in to his wife, she conceived and bore a son; and he called his name Beriah, because tragedy had come upon his house. 
7:24: And for those who remained, he also built Lower and Upper Beth-Horon. And the son of Uzzen was Sheerah; 
7:25: and Rephah was his son, as well as Resheph, and Telah his son, Tahan his son, 
7:26: Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son, 
7:27: Nun his son, and Joshua his son. 
7:28: Now their possessions and dwelling places were Bethel and its towns: to the east Naaran, to the west Gezer and its towns, and Shechem and its towns, as far as Ayyah and its towns; 
7:29: and by the borders of the children of Manasseh were Beth-Shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph, the son of Israel. 
7:30: The sons of Asher were Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah. 
7:31: The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel, who was the father of Birzaith. 
7:32: And Heber begot Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shua. 
7:33: The sons of Japhlet were Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath—these were the children of Japhlet. 
7:34: The sons of Shemer were Ahi, Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram. 
7:35: And the sons of his brother Helem were Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal. 
7:36: The sons of Zophah were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah, 
7:37: Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Jithran, and Beera. 
7:38: The sons of Jether were Jephunneh, Pispah, and Ara. 
7:39: The sons of Ulla were Arah, Haniel, and Rizia. 
7:40: All these were the children of Asher, heads of the households of their fathers’ houses, choice men, strong in strength and chief leaders. They were recorded by generations among the army fit for battle. Their number was twenty-six thousand.

