9:1: And the census was of all Israel, those who had been inscribed in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah, along with those banished to Babylon in their lawlessness; 
9:2: and those who dwelled formerly with their possessions in the cities of Israel, and the priests, the Levites, and those to whom permission had been given. 
9:3: Then some of the children of Judah dwelt in Jerusalem, along with some of the children of Benjamin, and the children of Ephraim and Manasseh: 
9:4: Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the descendants of Perez, the son of Judah. 
9:5: Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn and his sons. 
9:6: Of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundred ninety. 
9:7: Of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah; 
9:8: Ibneiah the son of Jeroham; Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah; 
9:9: and their brethren, according to their generations, nine hundred fifty-six. All these men were heads of the families, according to the houses of their fathers. 
9:10: Of the priests, there were Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, and Jachin; 
9:11: Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the officer over the house of God; 
9:12: Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchijah; Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer; 
9:13: and their brethren, heads of the houses of their fathers, one thousand seven hundred sixty. They were very able men for the work of the service of the house of God. 
9:14: Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari; 
9:15: Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph; 
9:16: Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites. 
9:17: The gatekeepers were Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their brethren. Shallum was the chief. 
9:18: Until then they had been gatekeepers for the camps of the children of Levi at the King’s Gate on the east. 
9:19: Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brethren from his father’s house, the Korahites, were in charge of the work of the service, gatekeepers of the tabernacle. Their fathers had been keepers of the entrance to the camp of the Lord. 
9:20: And Phinehas the son of Eleazar had been the officer over them in time past, and these were with him. 
9:21: Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was keeper of the door of the tabernacle of the testimony. 
9:22: All those chosen as gatekeepers were two hundred twelve, and in their villages they were recorded by their genealogy. David and Samuel, the seer, appointed them for their faithfulness. 
9:23: So they and their sons were to guard the gates of the house of the Lord, the house of the tabernacle. 
9:24: The gatekeepers were assigned to the four directions: the east, west, north, and south. 
9:25: And their brethren in their villages had to come with them from time to time for seven days. 
9:26: For in this trusted office were four chief gatekeepers; they were Levites. They had charge over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God. 
9:27: And they remained round about the house of God, for they had charge over the keys to unlock the doors of the temple every morning. 
9:28: Now some of them were in charge of the serving vessels, for they brought them in and took them out by count. 
9:29: Some of them were appointed over the furnishings and over all the implements of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour and the wine and the oil and the incense and the spices. 
9:30: And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the spices. 
9:31: Mattithiah of the Levites, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted over the items of the sacrificial offering from the chief priest’s frying pan. 
9:32: And Banaias the Kohathite out of their brethren was in charge of preparing the showbread for every Sabbath. 
9:33: These are the singers, heads of the houses of the fathers of the Levites, who were assigned daily, freed from other duties, for they were employed in that work day and night. 
9:34: These heads of the houses of the fathers of the Levites were heads throughout their generations. They dwelt in Jerusalem. 
9:35: Jeiel the father of Gibeon, whose wife’s name was Maacah, dwelt at Gibeon. 
9:36: His firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, 
9:37: Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth. 
9:38: And Mikloth begot Shimeam. They also dwelt alongside their relatives in Jerusalem, with their brethren. 
9:39: Ner begot Kish, Kish begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Esh-Baal. 
9:40: The son of Jonathan was Merib-Baal, and Merib-Baal begot Micah. 
9:41: The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz. 
9:42: And Ahaz begot Jarah; Jarah begot Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza; 
9:43: Moza begot Binea, Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son. 
9:44: And Azel had six sons, whose names were Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan; these were the sons of Azel.

