4:1: The sons of Judah were Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal. 
4:2: And Reaiah the son of Shobal begot Jahath, and Jahath begot Ahumai and Lahad. These were the families of the Zorathites. 
4:3: These were the sons of the father of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi; 
4:4: and Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Hushah. These were the sons of Hur: the firstborn of Ephrathah the father of Bethlehem. 
4:5: And Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah. 
4:6: Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 
4:7: The sons of Helah were Zereth, Zohar, and Ethnan. 
4:8: Koz begot Anub, Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum. 
4:9: Now Jabez was more honorable than his brothers, and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, “Because I bore him in pain.” 
4:10: And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, “Oh, that You would bless me indeed, and enlarge my territory, that Your hand would be with me, and make known that You will not humble me.” Then God made it all happen as he requested. 
4:11: Chelub the brother of Shuhah begot Mehir, who was the father of Eshton. 
4:12: And Eshton begot Beth-Rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-Nahash. These were the men of Rechah. 
4:13: The sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel were Hathath, 
4:14: and Meonothai who begot Ophrah. Seraiah begot Joab the father of Ge-Harashim, for they were craftsmen. 
4:15: The sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh were Iru, Elah, and Naam. The son of Elah was Kenaz. 
4:16: The sons of Jehalelel were Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel. 
4:17: The sons of Ezrah were Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. Mered’s wife bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
4:18: His wife Jehudijah bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Sochoh, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. These were the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took. 
4:19: The sons of Hodiah’s wife, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and of Eshtemoa the Maachathite. 
4:20: The sons of Shimon were Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi were Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth. 
4:21: The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of the linen workers of the house of Ashbea; 
4:22: also Jokim, and the men of Chozeba and Joash and Saraph, who lived in Moab, and he turned them back. Now the records are ancient. 
4:23: These were the potters living at Netaim and Gederah with the king, who prevailed in his kingdom and lived there. 
4:24: The sons of Simeon were Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul, 
4:25: Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, and Mishma his son. 
4:26: The sons of Mishma were Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, and Shimei his son. 
4:27: Shimei had sixteen sons and three daughters; but his brothers did not have many children, nor did any of their families multiply as much as the children of Judah. 
4:28: They dwelt at Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar Shual, 
4:29: Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad, 
4:30: Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag, 
4:31: Beth-Marcaboth, Hazar Susim, Beth-Biri, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David. 
4:32: And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities, 
4:33: and all their villages were round about these cities as far as Baal. This was their possession and their allotment: 
4:34: Meshobab, Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah; 
4:35: Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel; 
4:36: Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, and Benaiah; 
4:37: Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah; 
4:38: these mentioned by name were leaders in their families, and they increased abundantly in their fathers’ households. 
4:39: So they went to the entrance of Gedor, as far as the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks. 
4:40: And they found rich, good pasture, and the land was broad, quiet, and peaceful. This is because some Hamites formerly lived there. 
4:41: These recorded by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah; and they attacked their tents and the Meunites who were found there, and utterly destroyed them, as it is to this day. So they dwelt in their place, because there was pasture for their flocks there. 
4:42: Now some of them, five hundred men of the sons of Simeon, went to Mount Seir, having as their captains Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi. 
4:43: And they killed the remnants of the Amalekites, and dwell there to this day.

