13:1: Then David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds, with every leader. 
13:2: And David said to all the assembly of Israel, “If it is of the Lord our God and it seems good to you, let us send to our brethren remaining in all of Israel, and to the priests, the Levites who are with them in the cities of their possession, so they may gather together with us. 
13:3: And let us bring the ark of our God back to us, for we have not sought it since the days of Saul.” 
13:4: Then all the assembly said they would do so, for this thing was right in the eyes of all the people. 
13:5: So David summoned an assembly of all Israel, from the boundaries of Egypt to as far as the entrance of Hamath, to carry in the ark of God from the city of Kirjath-Jearim. 
13:6: David brought it up, and all Israel went up to the city of David, which belonged to Judah, to bring up the ark of God the Lord, who rests between the cherubim, whose name is proclaimed by it. 
13:7: So they carried the ark of God on a new cart from the house of Aminadab; Uzza and his brothers drove the cart. 
13:8: Then David and all Israel played music before God with all their strength, with singing, on harps, on stringed instruments, on tambourines, on cymbals, and with trumpets. 
13:9: And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzza put out his hand to hold the ark, because the oxen stumbled. 
13:10: Then the anger of the Lord was aroused against Uzza, and He struck him because he put his hand upon the ark. He died there before God. 
13:11: And David became disheartened regarding the Lord’s action against Uzza, and called that place Perez-Uzza until this day. 
13:12: David was afraid of God that day, saying, “How shall I bring the ark of God home by myself?” 
13:13: So David would not move the ark by himself into the City of David, but had it taken aside into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. 
13:14: The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom, in his house, three months. And the Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom and all he had.

