26:1: Concerning the divisions of the gates: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 
26:2: And the sons of Meshelemiah were Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
26:3: Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh. 
26:4: Moreover the sons of Obed-Edom were Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth, 
26:5: Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth; for God blessed him. 
26:6: Also to Shemaiah his son were sons born from the firstborn Roshai in his father’s house, because they were men of great ability. 
26:7: The sons of Shemaiah were Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brothers Elihu and Semachiah were able men. 
26:8: All these were of the sons of Obed-Edom, they and their sons and their brethren, able men with strength for the work: sixty-two of Obed-Edom. 
26:9: And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, eighteen able men. 
26:10: Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons who guarded the first, since he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him the first of the second division: 
26:11: Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen. 
26:12: Among these were the divisions of the gatekeepers assigned daily by the leaders of the army, just like their brethren, to serve in the house of the Lord. 
26:13: And they cast lots for each gate, the small as well as the great, according to their father’s house. 
26:14: The lot of those for the East Gate fell to Shelemiah and Zechariah. The sons of Joash cast lots for Melchiah, and his lot came out for the North Gate; 
26:15: to Obed-Edom the South Gate opposite the storehouse. 
26:16: For the second: to Hosah for the West Gate following the Pastophorion Gate of the ascending highway: watchman opposite watchman. 
26:17: On the east were six each day, on the north four each day, on the south four each day, and for the storehouse two by two. 
26:18: For relief, to the west there were four and on the track there were two relief guards. 
26:19: These were the divisions of the gatekeepers among the sons of Korah and among the sons of Merari. 
26:20: And their Levite brethren were over the treasuries of the house of the Lord and over the treasuries of the dedicated things. 
26:21: These were the sons of Laadan, the descendants of the Gershonites; to Laadan were the heads of their families; the son of Laadan the Gershonite was Jehieli. 
26:22: The sons of Jetheli, Zetham and Joel, were brothers over the treasuries of the house of the Lord. 
26:23: Of the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites: 
26:24: Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was overseer of the treasuries. 
26:25: And his brethren by Eliezer were Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son. 
26:26: This Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasuries of the dedicated things which King David and the heads of fathers’ houses, the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the army had dedicated. 
26:27: He also dedicated things taken from battles and from the spoils so that there would not be any lack in the maintenance of the house of the Lord. 
26:28: And all that Samuel the seer, Saul the son of Kish, Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah dedicated—every dedicated thing was under the hand of Shelomith and his brethren. 
26:29: Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons performed outside duties as officials and judges over Israel. 
26:30: Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, one thousand seven hundred able men, had the oversight of Israel on the west side of the Jordan in every service of the Lord and duty for the king. 
26:31: Among the Hebronites, Jerijah was head of the Hebronites according to their generations, according to their families. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were numbered, and among them in Jazer of Gilead mighty men were found. 
26:32: And his brethren were two thousand seven hundred able men, heads of fathers’ houses, whom King David made officials over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh in every edict of the Lord and utterance of the king.

