23:1: So when David was old and full of days, he made his son Solomon king over Israel. 
23:2: And he gathered together all the leaders of Israel, with the priests and the Levites. 
23:3: Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and above. The number of individual males was thirty-eight thousand. 
23:4: Of these, twenty-four thousand were taskmasters over the work of the house of the Lord, six thousand were officers and judges, 
23:5: four thousand were gatekeepers, and four thousand praised the Lord with musical instruments which he made to praise the Lord. 
23:6: David also separated them into divisions among the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
23:7: And to Paroshom, to Edan, and to Shimei. 
23:8: The sons of Laadan: the first Jehiel, then Zetham and Joel, three in all. 
23:9: The sons of Shimei: Shelomith, Haziel, and Haran, three in all. These were the heads of the fathers’ houses of Laadan. 
23:10: And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah. These were the four sons of Shimei. 
23:11: Jahath was the first, and Zizah the second. As for Jeush and Beriah, they did not multiply sons, and they became but one reckoning, according to their father’s house. 
23:12: The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four in all. 
23:13: The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron was set apart that he should sanctify the holy of holies, that he and his sons forever should burn incense before the Lord, to minister and to offer prayers in His name forever. 
23:14: Now the sons of Moses the man of God had been called to the tribe of Levi. 
23:15: The sons of Moses were Gershon and Eliezer. 
23:16: Of the sons of Gershon, Shebuel was the first. 
23:17: Of the descendants of Eliezer, Rehabiah was the first. And Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah greatly multiplied. 
23:18: Of the sons of Izhar, Shelomith was the first. 
23:19: Of the sons of Hebron, Jeriah was the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
23:20: Of the sons of Uzziel, Michah was the first and Jesshiah the second. 
23:21: The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli were Eleazar and Kish. 
23:22: And Eleazar died and had no sons, only daughters; and their brethren, the sons of Kish, took them as wives. 
23:23: The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three in all. 
23:24: These were the sons of Levi according to the houses of their fathers, chiefs of their families according to the number in the household, according to their polls, who from the age of twenty years and older did the work for the service of the house of the Lord. 
23:25: For David said, “The Lord God of Israel has given rest to His people, and dwells in Jerusalem forever.” 
23:26: And the Levites carried not the tabernacle nor all of its vessels for its ministry. 
23:27: For by the last words of David was the numbering of the Levites taken, from twenty years of age and older. 
23:28: For their duty was to help the sons of Aaron in the service of the house of the Lord, in the courts and in the chambers, in the purification of all holy things and the work of the service of the house of God; 
23:29: for the showbread and fine flour for the meat offering, and for the unleavened cakes, the fried cake, and the dough, and for every measure; 
23:30: to stand every morning to thank and praise the Lord, and likewise at evening; 
23:31: and regularly before the Lord—at every presentation of a whole burnt offering to the Lord, on the Sabbaths, on the New Moons, and on the set feasts, as by the number according to the ordinance governing them. 
23:32: They are to keep charge of the tabernacle of witness, of the holy places, and the sons of Aaron their brethren, to minister in the house of the Lord.

