29:1: Furthermore, King David said to the entire assembly, “My one son Solomon, whom God has chosen, is young and inexperienced, and the work is a great work, for the temple is not for man, but for the Lord God. 
29:2: According to all means possible I prepared gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, onyx stones, costly and precious stones of various colors, and much marble for the house of my God. 
29:3: And because I took pleasure in the house of my God, I gave to the house of my God gold and silver over and above what I procured for myself; more than all I prepared for my house of my God, over and above all I prepared for my consecrated house. 
29:4: Three thousand talents of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver to be overlaid in these the walls of the sanctuary 
29:5: by the hands of craftsmen. And who this day zealously dedicates his hands for the Lord?” 
29:6: Then the heads of the families, the princes of the sons of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the officers over the king’s work, offered willingly. 
29:7: They gave for the work of the house of God five thousand talents of gold and ten thousand darics of gold, ten thousand talents of silver, eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred thousand talents of iron. 
29:8: And whoever had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the Lord, into the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite. 
29:9: Then the people rejoiced as a result of their willingness, for they offered willingly to the Lord with their whole heart. King David rejoiced greatly. 
29:10: With this, King David blessed the Lord before all the assembly, saying, “Blessed are You, O Lord God of Israel, our Father, unto the ages of ages. 
29:11: Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the might. You are master over all that is in heaven and on the earth. Every king and nation is thrown into confusion before You. 
29:12: From the first, You are the wealth and the glory who reigns over all, as the Lord and dominion of all. In Your hand is power and authority, and you are almighty with Your hand to increase and establish all things. 
29:13: And now, Lord, we give thanks to You, and we praise Your glorious name. 
29:14: “But who am I, and who are my people, that we are able to be zealous in offering to You? For all things are Yours, and of Your own we give to You. 
29:15: For we are strangers before You and sojourners, as were all our fathers. Our days upon the earth are as a shadow, and there are none that remain. 
29:16: O Lord our God, as for all this abundance which I have prepared that a house should be built to Your holy name, it is of Your hand and all is Yours. 
29:17: I know also, O Lord, that You search the heart and You love righteousness. As for me, in the sincerity of my heart I willingly offer all these things. And now I see Your people who brought themselves here joyfully to offer willingly to You. 
29:18: O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep under guard these things in the thoughts of the heart of Your people forever, and lead their heart toward You. 
29:19: And give my son Solomon a fitting heart to keep Your commandments and Your testimonies and Your ordinances and bring to an end the final preparation of Your house.” 
29:20: Then David said to all the congregation, “Now bless the Lord your God.” And everyone in the congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and bowed down before the Lord and the king. 
29:21: The next day after the first day, David sacrificed and offered up whole burnt offerings to the Lord—even a thousand calves, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs—along with their drink offerings, and an abundance of sacrifices for all Israel. 
29:22: So they ate and drank before the Lord with great gladness on that day. And they made Solomon the son of David king a second time and anointed him king before the Lord, and Zadok to the priesthood. 
29:23: Then Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father, and was well pleased, and prospered; and all Israel listened to him. 
29:24: All the leaders and the mighty men, as well as all the sons of King David his father, were subject to him. 
29:25: And the Lord exalted Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel and gave him the glory of a king, which was not given any king of Israel before him. 
29:26: Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over Israel 
29:27: forty years, in Hebron for seven years and in Jerusalem for thirty-three years. 
29:28: So he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and glory. Solomon his son reigned in his stead. 
29:29: And the remaining works of King David, the former and the latter, are written in the book of Samuel the seer, in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer, 
29:30: concerning all his reign, his power, and the events that happened to him, to Israel, and to all the kingdoms of the lands.

