9:1: Then Ezra arose from the court of the temple and went into the chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib. 
9:2: He spent the night there and ate no bread nor drank any water, but mourned over the great lawlessness of the people. 
9:3: A proclamation went forth throughout all Judea and Jerusalem that everyone from the captivity should gather in Jerusalem. 
9:4: But for those who would not meet in two or three days, according to the presiding elders, their cattle would be confiscated for sacrifice and the men themselves would be excluded from the people who returned from exile. 
9:5: So the men from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin gathered in Jerusalem on the third day, which was on the twentieth day of the ninth month. 
9:6: Because of the inclement weather, all the people sat down, shivering together in the spacious court outside the temple. 
9:7: Ezra stood to his feet and spoke to them, saying, “You acted lawlessly and married foreign women, so you added to the sin of Israel. 
9:8: Now therefore, make your confession and glorify the Lord God of our fathers. 
9:9: Do His will and be separate from the peoples of the land and from your foreign wives.” 
9:10: Then all the people cried out and said with a loud voice, “Thus as You have said, we will do. 
9:11: But our number is great and it is wintertime, so we cannot stand in the open air and find a way to do this work in one or two days; for we have sinned greatly in these matters. 
9:12: So let the leaders of the people remain, and let those in our communities who have foreign wives return at an appointed time 
9:13: to meet with the elders and judges of each settlement until we are delivered from the Lord’s wrath in this matter.” 
9:14: Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jehziah the son of Thokanos accepted their conditions, and Meshullam, Levi, and Shabbethai agreed to be fellow arbitrators with them. 
9:15: All those from the captivity also were in agreement with this. 
9:16: Then Ezra the priest chose for himself leading men of their paternal families, naming all of them, and on the first day of the tenth month they sat down together to begin their examinations 
9:17: of the men who had taken foreign wives. These cases were brought to a conclusion on the new moon of the first month. 
9:18: Those priests who were found to have foreign wives were: 
9:19: from the sons of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak and his brethren, Maseiah, Eliazar, Jarib, and Jodan. 
9:20: They swore under oath to put away their wives and to make atonement with rams for their ignorance. 
9:21: The priests from the sons of Immer were Ananias, Zebadiah, Manes and Shemaiah and Jehiel and Azariah. 
9:22: And from the sons of Pashur: Elionai, Maasiah, Ishmael, Nathanael, Okideilus, and Salthas. 
9:23: From the Levites there were Jozabad and Shimei and Kolaiah, who was Kalitah, and Pethaiah and Judah and Jonah; 
9:24: and from the temple singers there were Eliashib and Bacchurus; 
9:25: and from the gatekeepers there were Shallum and Tolbanes. 
9:26: And from Israel: from the sons of Phorus, there were Jermas, Izziah, Melchiah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Asibias, and Benaiah. 
9:27: From the sons of Elam there were Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jezrielus and Obadiah, Jeremoth and Elijah. 
9:28: From the sons of Zamoth there were Eliadas, Eliasimus, Othoniah, Jeremoth, Sabathus, and Zerdaiah. 
9:29: From the sons of Bebai, there were Johannes, Ananias, Zabdus, and Emathis. 
9:30: From the sons of Mani there were Olamus, Mamuchus, Jedaiah, Jashub, Asaeilus, and Jeremoth. 
9:31: From the sons of Addi there were Naathus, Moossiah, Laccunus, Naidus, Bescaspasmas, Sestheel, Balnouas, and Manasseh. 
9:32: From the sons of Annan there were Elionas, Asaias, Melchias, Sabbaias, and Simon Chosamaias. 
9:33: From the sons of Asam there were Maltannias, Mattathias, Zabannias, Eliphalat, Manasseh, and Shimei. 
9:34: From the sons of Bahni there were Jeremiah, Mamdias, Maerus, Joel, Mamdai, Paedias, Vaniah, Carabasian, Eliasibas, Mamnitanaimas, Eliasis, Bannous, Elialis, Shomeis, Shelemiah, and Nethaniah. 
9:35: From the sons of Ezora there were Shessis, Ezriel, Azeilas, Samatus, Zambris, and Joseph; and from the sons of Noomah there were Mazitias, Zabadias, Iddo, Joel, and Benaiah. 
9:36: All of these married foreign women, whom they sent away along with their children. 
9:37: The priests, the Levites, and those from Israel settled in Jerusalem and in the countryside on the new moon of the seventh month. So the children of Israel were in their dwelling places. 
9:38: Then all the people gathered with one accord in the spacious place before the east gate of the temple. 
9:39: They asked Ezra the high priest and reader to bring the Law of Moses, which had been handed down by the Lord God of Israel. 
9:40: So Ezra the high priest brought the law for all the people—both men, women, and all the priests—to hear the law on the new moon of the seventh month. 
9:41: He read aloud in the open place before the temple gate from early morning to noonday in the presence of both men and women; and all the people paid attention to the law. 
9:42: Ezra the priest and reader of the law stood upon the wooden judgment seat that had been made ready. 
9:43: Mattathias, Shammous, Ananias, Azariah, Uriah, Hezekiah, and Baalsamus stood beside him at his right side. 
9:44: At his left side stood Pedaiah, Mishael, Melcaiah, Lothasubus, Nabariah, and Zechariah. 
9:45: Then Ezra took in hand the book of the law in the presence of the people, for he had the seat of honor before all of them; 
9:46: and when he opened the law, all of them stood up straight. Ezra then blessed the Lord God Most High, the God of Hosts, the Almighty. 
9:47: All the people cried out, “Amen!” They raised up their hands, then fell prostrate on the ground and worshiped the Lord. 
9:48: The Levites, Jeshua, Anniuth, Sarabiah, Jadinus, Jakoubas, Sabbateus, Autias, Maiannas, Kalitas, Azariah and Jozabdas, Ananias, and Pelaiah, taught the law of the Lord. At the same time, they explained what was being read. 
9:49: Attarates then spoke to Ezra the high priest and reader, and to the Levites who taught the people, and to the multitude, saying, 
9:50: “This day is holy to the Lord” (now all were weeping when they heard the law), 
9:51: “so go therefore and eat the fat and drink the sweet, and send a gift to those who have none. 
9:52: For this day is holy to the Lord. Do not be grieved, for the Lord will honor you.” 
9:53: So the Levites gave a command to all the people, saying, “This day is holy; do not be grieved.” 
9:54: Then everyone went on their way to eat and drink, to gladden themselves, to give gifts to those who were lacking, and to heartily rejoice. 
9:55: For they were inspired by the words which were taught to them, and they gathered together.

