7:1: Then Sisinnes, governor of Coelesyria and Phoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes and his associates followed the command of King Darius, 
7:2: and took diligent care of the holy works, and worked together with the elders of the Jews and the governors of the temple. 
7:3: The sacred works were free from difficulty while the prophets Haggai and Zechariah prophesied. 
7:4: So they completed these by the command of the Lord God of Israel; 
7:5: and with the consent of Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes, the Persian kings, the house was completed the twenty-third day of the month of Adar during the sixth year of King Darius. 
7:6: Then the children of Israel, and the priests, the Levites, and the rest of those from the captivity who joined them did according to what is recorded in the book of Moses. 
7:7: For at the dedication of the Lord’s temple, they offered one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs, 
7:8: and twelve young goats as a sin offering for all Israel, with reference to the number of the twelve chiefs of Israel’s tribes. 
7:9: The priests, clothed in their vestments according to their own people, attended to the works of the Lord God of Israel in accordance with the book of Moses, and the doorkeepers stood at each gate. 
7:10: The children of Israel who came from the captivity kept Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month, following the priests and the Levites being purified together. 
7:11: But although all the Levites were purified together, not all the children of the captivity were purified. 
7:12: Nevertheless they sacrificed Passover for all the children of the captivity, for their brother priests, and for themselves. 
7:13: The children of Israel who came from the captivity and all who sought the Lord and separated themselves from the abominations of the people of the land ate the paschal lamb. 
7:14: They also observed the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days and rejoiced before the Lord. 
7:15: For He changed the counsel of the king of the Assyrians regarding them to make their hands strong in the works of the Lord God of Israel.

