6:1: Now in the second year of the reign of Darius, the prophets to the Jews, Haggai and Zechariah the son of Iddo, who were in Judea and Jerusalem, prophesied to them in the name of the Lord God of Israel. 
6:2: Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua the son of Jozadak resumed building the house of the Lord in Jerusalem. The prophets of the Lord were with them and helped them. 
6:3: During this same time, Sisinnes, governor of Syria and Phoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes and his associates arrived and said, 
6:4: “By whose instruction are you building this house, the roof, and completing all these other things? Who are the builders accomplishing all this?” 
6:5: But the elders of the Jews had the grace of visitation from the Lord, for His grace was over the captives. 
6:6: So they were not stopped from construction until word could be gotten to Darius about them and a response received. 
6:7: Here is a copy of the letter which Sisinnes, governor of Syria and Phoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes and their officers, the governors in Syria and Phoenicia, wrote and sent to Darius: 
6:8: “To King Darius: Greetings. Let it be known fully to our lord the king that we arrived in the country of Judea and went into the city of Jerusalem. We discovered the elders of the Jews from the captivity building a great new house for the Lord in the city. It is made of polished stones with very costly wood laid on the walls. 
6:9: Those works are being done with zeal, and the work is flourishing at their hands. It is being finished with all grandeur and carefulness. 
6:10: “We inquired of their elders, saying, ‘By whose direction are you building this house and setting the foundations for this building?’ 
6:11: Then we asked them who their leaders were, for the sake of making them known to you in writing. And we asked them for a list of names. 
6:12: They replied, ‘We are the servants of the Lord who created heaven and earth. 
6:13: This house was built many years before by a king of Israel. He was great and powerful, and it was completed. 
6:14: But when our fathers sinned against the Lord of Israel, who is in heaven, and provoked Him, He handed them over to the authority of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon and of the Chaldeans. 
6:15: He both razed the house and set it on fire; then he led the people as captives to Babylon. 
6:16: ‘But in the first year King Cyrus reigned over the country of Babylon, he wrote to rebuild this house. 
6:17: Then King Cyrus brought out the sacred vessels of gold and silver which Nebuchadnezzar had carried from this house in Jerusalem and put in his own temple, and he handed them over to Zerubbabel and Sheshbazzar the governor. 
6:18: He then commanded him to carry all these vessels and put them back in the temple in Jerusalem, and to rebuild the Lord’s temple in this place. 
6:19: Then this same Sheshbazzar, after he arrived here, set the foundations of the Lord’s house in Jerusalem. From that time until now, the rebuilding has continued, but it is not yet completed.’ 
6:20: “Now therefore, O king, if you so determine, let a search be conducted in the royal archives of our lord the king in Babylon. 
6:21: If it is discovered that the rebuilding of the house of the Lord in Jerusalem was done with the permission of King Cyrus and approved by our lord the king, let him direct us concerning this matter.” 
6:22: Then King Darius ordered a search to be conducted in the royal archives that were delivered to Babylon. So a scroll was found in the palace in Ecbatana in the country of Media wherein these words were recorded: 
6:23: “In the first year of the reign of King Cyrus, he commanded that the Lord’s house in Jerusalem, where they sacrifice with perpetual fire, be rebuilt. 
6:24: It was to be sixty cubits high and sixty cubits wide, with three layers of polished stones and one layer of new native wood. The expenses were to be paid from King Cyrus’s treasury. 
6:25: The sacred vessels of the Lord’s house, those of both gold and silver which Nebuchadnezzar had carried from the house in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, these were to be returned to the house in Jerusalem and replaced where they were previously.” 
6:26: Darius therefore commanded Sisinnes the governor of Syria and Phoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes and their officers, and those chosen as leaders in Syria and Phoenicia, to stay away from the place, and to allow Zerubbabel the servant of the Lord and governor of Judea, and the elders of the Jews to erect the Lord’s house on its former site. 
6:27: “I also command,” he continued, “that the building be completed and that you be fully intent on helping the captives who returned to Judea until the completion of the Lord’s house. 
6:28: Furthermore, care must be taken to give a contribution from the regular tribute of Coelesyria and Phoenicia to these men, that is, to Zerubbabel, for bulls, rams, and lambs for sacrifices to the Lord. 
6:29: Likewise, a regular contribution must be given every year, without complaining, of wheat, salt, wine, and oil for daily consumption, as the priests in Jerusalem may dictate, 
6:30: so they may offer drink offerings to God Most High on behalf of the king and his children, and pray concerning their lives.” 
6:31: Moreover he commanded, “As many as transgress or void anything written herein, wood should be taken from his own house and he will be hanged upon it. His possessions are then to be given over to the king. 
6:32: “Therefore, may the Lord whose name is invoked there destroy any king and nation that shall reach forth their hands to prevent or ruin the house of the Lord in Jerusalem. 
6:33: I, King Darius, declare as herein decreed that this be accomplished diligently.”

