5:1: After this the heads of the paternal houses were chosen according to their tribes to go up, along with their wives, sons, and daughters, and their male and female servants, and their cattle. 
5:2: Darius also sent along one thousand cavalry with them, to bring them back to Jerusalem in peace and with the music of drums and flutes. 
5:3: All their kindred were dancing, for Darius arranged for them to go up with them as well. 
5:4: These are the names of the men who were their governors and who went up according to their paternal houses in the tribes: 
5:5: the priests, the sons of Phinehas the son of Aaron; Jeshua the son of Jozadak the son of Seraiah, and Joakim the son of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, of the house of David, from the family of Phares, of the tribe of Judah. 
5:6: Zerubbabel was the one who spoke wise words before Darius the king of the Persians in the second year of his reign, in the month of Nisan, the first month. 
5:7: They are the ones from Judea who went up from their sojourn in captivity and whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon resettled in Babylon. 
5:8: They returned to Jerusalem and the rest of Judea, each to his own city. They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Hehum, and Baanah, their leaders. 
5:9: The number of those from the nation, including their leaders, were: the sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two; 
5:10: the sons of Shephatiah, four hundred seventy two; the sons of Arah, seven hundred fifty-six; 
5:11: the sons of Pahath-Moab of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred twelve; 
5:12: the sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four; the sons of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five; the sons of Chorbe, seven hundred five; the sons of Bani, six hundred forty-eight; 
5:13: the sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three; the sons of Azgad, one thousand three hundred twenty-two; 
5:14: the sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven; the sons of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-six; the sons of Adin, four hundred fifty-four; 
5:15: the sons of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-two; the sons of Kilan and Azetas, sixty-seven; the sons of Azaru, four hundred thirty-two; 
5:16: the sons of Annias, one hundred one; the sons of Arom and the sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three; the sons of Hariph, one hundred twelve; 
5:17: the sons of Baiterus, three thousand five; the sons of Bethlomon, one hundred twenty-three. 
5:18: Those from Netophah were fifty-five; those from Anathoth, one hundred fifty-eight; those from Beth Azmaveth, forty-two; 
5:19: those from Kirjath Jearim, twenty-five; those from Chephirah and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three; 
5:20: the Chadiasans and Ammidians, four hundred twenty-two; those from Kirama and Geba, six hundred twenty-one; 
5:21: those from Macalon, one hundred twenty-two; those from Betolio, fifty-two; the sons of Nephish, one hundred fifty-six; 
5:22: the sons of the other Calamolalus and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five; the sons of Jerechus, three hundred forty-five; 
5:23: the sons of Senaah, three thousand three hundred thirty. 
5:24: The number of the priests were: the sons of Jedaiah the son of Jeshua, of the sons of Anasib, nine hundred seventy-two; the sons of Immer, one thousand fifty-two; 
5:25: the sons of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven; the sons of Charme, one thousand seventeen. 
5:26: The Levites: the sons of Joshua and Kadmiel and Bannas and Sudias, seventy-four. 
5:27: The number of the temple singers were: the sons of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight. 
5:28: The number of the gatekeepers were: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, in all one hundred thirtynine. 
5:29: The number of the temple servants were: the sons of Esau, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth, the sons of Keros, the sons of Sua, the sons of Padon, the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, 
5:30: the sons of Akkub, the sons of Uthai, the sons of Ketab, the sons of Hagab, the sons of Subai, the sons of Hana, the sons of Cathua, the sons of Geddur, 
5:31: the sons of Jairus, the sons of Daisan, the sons of Noeba, the sons of Chezib, the sons of Gazera, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Phinoe, the sons of Hasrah, the sons of Basthai, the sons of Asnah, the sons of Maani, the sons of Nephisim, the sons of Acuph, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Asur, the sons of Pharakim, the sons of Bazluth, 
5:32: the sons of Mehida, the sons of Cutha, the sons of Charea, the sons of Barkos, the sons of Serar, the sons of Temah, the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha. 
5:33: The sons of the servants of Solomon: the sons of Assaphioth, the sons of Peruda, the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Lozon, the sons of Isdael, the sons of Shephatiah, 
5:34: the sons of Agia, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Sarothie, the sons of Masiah, the sons of Gas, the sons of Addus, the sons of Subas, the sons of Apherra, the sons of Barodis, the sons of Shaphat, the sons of Allon. 
5:35: All the temple servants and the sons of the servants of Solomon were three hundred seventy-two. 
5:36: Those who come up from Thermeleth and Thelersas, led by Charaath, Adan and Amar, 
5:37: were unable to tell of their lineage and generation as to how they were from Israel. They were the sons of Delaiah the son of Tobiah, and the sons of Nekoda, and their number was six hundred fifty-two. 
5:38: The priests who laid claim to the priesthood but were not found in the register were: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, and the sons of Jaddus, who married Agia, one of the daughters of Barzillai, and was called by his name. 
5:39: So when a search into the lineage of these men was made in the register, and nothing was found, they were removed from the list to perform priestly service. 
5:40: Nehemiah and Attharias said they were not to partake in the holy things until a high priest arose wearing the Urim and the Thummim. 
5:41: All those from Israel from twelve years of age and older, apart from the male and female servants, were forty-two thousand three hundred sixty. Their male and female servants were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven. Cantors and musicians were two hundred forty five. 
5:42: There were four hundred thirty-five camels, seven thousand thirty-six horses, two hundred forty-five mules, and five thousand five hundred twenty-five donkeys. 
5:43: Some of the heads of the paternal houses in Israel arrived at the temple of God in Jerusalem and vowed to the best of their ability to rebuild the house on its site, 
5:44: and to give to the temple treasury for its works: one thousand minas of gold, five thousand minas of silver, and one hundred priestly vestments. 
5:45: The priests, the Levites, and some of the people decided to live in Jerusalem, while the temple singers and doorkeepers settled in the countryside with all Israel in their villages. 
5:46: When the seventh month came and each of the children of Israel was settled in his own place, they gathered together with one accord in the open area of the first gate toward the east. 
5:47: Then Jeshua the son of Jozadak and his brother-priests and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel with his brothers took charge. They prepared the altar of the God of Israel 
5:48: to offer whole burnt offerings on it according to what was said in the book of Moses, the man of God. 
5:49: Some of the other people from the land gathered with them in hostility, and all the people of the land were stronger than they. Yet they set up the altar in its place and offered sacrifices and whole burnt offerings to the Lord at the appointed times, morning and evening. 
5:50: They also kept the Feast of Tabernacles as commanded in the law, and they offered sacrifices every day as was fitting. 
5:51: After this they offered the daily sacrifices and the sacrifices of the Sabbaths, the new moons, and all the sacred feasts. 
5:52: As many as made a vow to God began to offer sacrifices to Him from the new moon of the seventh month, but the temple of God was not built as yet. 
5:53: So they gave silver to the stonecutters and the woodworkers, and food, drink, and conveyances to the Sidonians and Tyrians, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon, then float them on rafts to the harbor at Joppa, according to the ordinance written to them from King Cyrus of the Persians. 
5:54: Then in the second year and the second month after they came to the temple of God in Jerusalem, Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, Jeshua the son of Jozadak and their brothers, and the Levitical priests and all who came to Jerusalem from the captivity began the work. 
5:55: They laid the foundation of God’s temple on the new moon of the second month in the second year after they arrived in Judea and Jerusalem. 
5:56: They established the Levites who were twenty years and older over the Lord’s works. So Jeshua and his sons and brothers, and Kadmiel his brother, and the sons of Jeshua Emadabun, and the sons of Joda son of Iliadun with his sons and brothers, and all the Levites moved forward the work on God’s house with one accord. 
5:57: The builders built the temple of the Lord. Then the priests, donned in their vestments and with musical instruments and trumpets, and the Levites, the sons of Asaph, with their cymbals, praised and blessed the Lord according to the instructions of King David of Israel. 
5:58: They sang hymns, thanking the Lord “for His goodness and His glory to all Israel unto the ages.” 
5:59: All the people cried out with a loud voice, singing to the Lord because of the raising of the Lord’s house. 
5:60: But some of the priests and Levites, old men who were leaders of their paternal houses, had seen the former temple. So they came to the building of this one with loud crying and bitter wailing. 
5:61: But many others came with trumpets and a loud shout of joy. 
5:62: However, the crowd could not hear the trumpets because of the people who wept. Therefore the multitude blew their trumpets so loud, the sound could be heard far away. 
5:63: When the enemies of the tribe of Judah and Benjamin heard it, they came to see what the noise of the trumpets was about. 
5:64: They discovered that those from the captivity were rebuilding the temple for the Lord God of Israel. 
5:65: So they approached Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the leaders of the paternal houses and said to them, “We will build together with you. 
5:66: For we likewise obey your Lord and have offered sacrifices to Him from the days of King Esar-haddon of the Assyrians who brought us here.” 
5:67: But Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the leaders of the paternal houses of Israel answered them, “It is not for you and us to build the house of the Lord our God. 
5:68: For we alone will build it for the Lord of Israel, according to what Cyrus the king of the Persians commanded us.” 
5:69: But the peoples of the land moved strongly against those in Judea. They besieged them and hindered them from continuing to build. 
5:70: By plots and by false claims and riots, they blocked the completion of the building during the lifetime of King Cyrus. 
5:71: They were halted from construction for two years until the reign of Darius.

