9:1: There was a man from the sons of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a man of power. 
9:2: And he had a tall and handsome son whose name was Saul. There was no more handsome person than he among the children of Israel. He was a head taller than anyone else in the land. 
9:3: Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul’s father, were lost. And Kish said to his son Saul, “Take one of the servants with you, and arise, go and look for the donkeys.” 
9:4: So they passed through the mountain of Ephraim and through the land of Shalisha, but they did not find them. Then they passed through the land of Shaalim, and they were not there. Then he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not find them. 
9:5: When they had come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who was with him, “Come, let us return, or my father will stop worrying about the donkeys and become worried about us.” 
9:6: And the servant said to him, “Look now, in this city there is a man of God, and he is an honorable man. All that he says surely comes to pass. So now let us go there; perhaps he can tell us the way we should go.” 
9:7: Then Saul said to his servants who were with him, “But look, if we go, what shall we bring the man of God? For the bread in our vessels is all gone, and there is no more that belongs to us to bring to the man of God.” 
9:8: And the servant answered Saul again and said, “Look, I have here in my hand one fourth of a shekel of silver. Give it to the man of God to tell us our way.” 
9:9: Before this time in Israel, everyone who went to inquire of God said, “Come, let us go up to the seer,” for the people previously called the prophet the seer. 
9:10: Then Saul said to his servant, “Well said! Come, let us go.” So they went to the city where the man of God was. 
9:11: As they went up the hill to the city, they found some young women going out to draw water and said to them, “Is the seer here?” 
9:12: And the young women answered them and said, “Look! He is just ahead of you. He is here now on account of the day; he has come into the city today because there is a sacrifice for the people on the high place. 
9:13: As soon as you enter the city you will surely find him there before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes, for he blesses the sacrifice and afterward the guests will eat. Now go up, for about this time you will find him.” 
9:14: So they went up to the city. As they were coming into the midst of the city, there was Samuel coming out to meet them on his way up to the high place. 
9:15: Now the day before Saul arrived the Lord revealed to the ear of Samuel, saying, 
9:16: “Tomorrow about this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him commander over My people Israel. He will save My people from the hand of the Philistines, for I have looked upon the humiliation of My people, because their cry has come to Me.” 
9:17: And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, “There he is, the man of whom I spoke to you. This one shall rule over My people.” 
9:18: Then Saul approached Samuel in the midst of the city, and said, “Please tell me, where is the seer’s house?” 
9:19: And Samuel answered Saul and said, “I am he. Go up before me to the high place and eat with me today, and in the morning before I send you forth, I will tell you all that is in your heart. 
9:20: But as for your donkeys lost three days ago, do not let your heart be anxious about them, for they have been found. And to whom is the beauty of Israel? Is it not on you and on your fathers’ house?” 
9:21: Then Saul answered and said, “Am I not a son of Benjamin, of the smallest branch of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the tribe of the branch of Benjamin? Why then do you speak like this to me?” 
9:22: Now Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them into the hall, and he set a place for them among the chief of those who were called—about seventy men. 
9:23: And Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the portion I gave you which I told you to set beside you.” 
9:24: So the cook lifted up the thigh and set it before Saul. Then Samuel said to Saul, “Behold! A remnant is set before you. Eat, because it is placed in front of you as a testimony to the others. Take of it.” And on that day, Saul ate with Samuel. 
9:25: When they had come down from the high place into the city, they spread a bed for Saul on the housetop. 
9:26: He slept. 
9:27: As the morning dawned, Samuel called to Saul on the housetop, saying, “Rise up, that I may send you on your way. And Saul arose, and he and Samuel went outside. As they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, “Tell the servant to go on ahead of us. But you stand here today, and give heed to the word of God.”

