18:1: From all of the cities of Israel, women came out dancing with tambourines, with joy, and with cymbals, to greet David. 
18:2: And the women began a song, and sang, “Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.” 
18:3: These words seemed evil in the eyes of Saul, and he said to David, “They ascribed to you ten thousands, and to me they ascribed only thousands.” 
18:4: So from that day forward, Saul eyed David with suspicion, 
18:5: as Saul was apprehensive of the mere presence of David, 
18:6: and he removed David from himself. He made David his captain-of-a-thousand, and he went out and came in before the people. 
18:7: David was prudent in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. 
18:8: And Saul saw David to be exceedingly wise, and felt challenged by his presence. 
18:9: But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he went out and came in before the people. 
18:10: Now Michal, daughter of Saul, loved David. And it was told to Saul, and it was pleasing in his eyes. 
18:11: So Saul said, “I will give her to him, and she will be a stumbling-block to him.” At this same time, the hand of the Philistines was against Saul. 
18:12: So Saul gave instruction to his servants saying, “Speak to David secretly, and say, ‘Look, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you. Become the son-in-law of the king.’ ” 
18:13: So Saul’s servants spoke these words in the ear of David. And David said, “Is it trivial in your eyes if one becomes the son-in-law of the king when he is lowly and without honor?” 
18:14: And the servants of Saul told him what David had said. 
18:15: Then Saul said, “Thus you shall say to David: ‘The king desires no dowry except one hundred foreskins of the Philistines, as vengeance on the enemies of the king.’ ” However, Saul schemed to deliver David into the hands of the Philistines. 
18:16: And the servants of Saul told David these words, and it was pleasing in the eyes of David, to become son-in-law of the king. 
18:17: And David arose, and he and his men went and killed in battle a hundred men of the Philistines. And he brought their foreskins to the king. He became the son-in-law of the king, and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife. 
18:18: Thus Saul could see the Lord was with David, and all Israel loved him. 
18:19: Saul was now even more apprehensive about David.

