13:1: Saul chose for himself three thousand men from the men of Israel. Two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and on the mountain of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. He sent the rest of the people away, each man to his dwelling. 
13:2: And Jonathan smote Nasib the Philistine who dwelt in the hill; and the Philistines heard of it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, “The servants have rejected us!” 
13:3: All Israel heard it said that Saul smote Nasib the Philistine. Now Israel had been put to shame before the Philistines, and the people cried out after Saul at Gilgal. 
13:4: Then the Philistines gathered to fight with Israel. Thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen came up against Israel, and as many troops as the sand on the seashore. And they came up and encamped in Michmash opposite Beth Aven southward. 
13:5: When the men of Israel saw they were in danger, they did not draw near. Instead the people hid in caves, in holes, in rocks, in trenches, and in pits. 
13:6: They even crossed the River Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. 
13:7: Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people standing with him were confused. Then Saul waited, as Samuel had said, for seven days for a testimony. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal and his people scattered from him. 
13:8: So Saul said, “Bring me a sacrifice so I may offer the whole-burnt offering and peace offering;” and he offered the whole-burnt offering. 
13:9: And it came to pass, when he finished presenting the burnt offering, Samuel came, and Saul went out to meet him, so that Samuel might bless him. 
13:10: Then Samuel said, “What have you done?” And Saul said, “When I saw the people scatter from me, and you did not come within the days of testimony as you arranged, and the Philistines gathered at Michmash, 
13:11: then I said, ‘The Philistines will now come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not prayed in the presence of the Lord.’ Therefore I forced myself, and I offered a burnt offering.” 
13:12: And Samuel said to Saul, “You have rendered it vain because you did not keep my commandments which the Lord commanded you. For now the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. 
13:13: But now your kingdom shall not stand. The Lord will seek a man for Himself after His own heart, and the Lord will appoint him to be ruler for His people, because you have not kept what the Lord commanded you.” 
13:14: Then Samuel arose and departed from Gilgal, and the remnant of the people followed behind Saul, to join with the men of war. And when they arrived from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin, Saul numbered the people with him, about six hundred men. 
13:15: Saul, Jonathan his son, and the people with them, remained in Gibeah of Benjamin and wept. But the Philistines encamped in Michmash. 
13:16: And the troops came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies; one company turned by way of Ophrah toward the land of Shual. 
13:17: Another company turned by way of Beth Horon, and another company turning by way of Gibeah, overlooking the Valley of Zeboim. 
13:18: Now there was not a blacksmith to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, “Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears.” 
13:19: Thus all Israel went down to the land of the Philistines to forge each man’s ploughshare into his light armor, his tool, his ax, and his sickle. 
13:20: It was near the time of the harvest and three shekels is the value of a ploughshare, and the same value for the axes and the sickles. 
13:21: And it came about in the days of the Michmash war, there was neither sword nor spear to be found in the hand of any of the troops with Saul and Jonathan. But they were found with Saul and Jonathan his son. 
13:22: And they went out from the land of the Philistines to the place beyond Michmash.

