10:1: Then Samuel took a vial of olive oil and poured it on his head, and kissed him and said to him, “Has not the Lord anointed you as ruler to His people, over Israel? You shall rule among the people of the Lord, and you shall save them from the hand of their enemies round about them. For you, this shall be the sign that the Lord anointed you as a ruler for His inheritance. 
10:2: As you depart from me today, you shall come to find two men by Rachel’s tomb in the territory of Benjamin who are jumping about ecstatically, and they will say to you, ‘The donkeys you searched for are found, but take notice, your father stopped worrying about news concerning the donkeys and is anxious about you, saying, “What shall I do about my son?” ’ 
10:3: Then you shall go on from there and come to the oak tree of Tabor. There you will find three men going up to God at Bethel, one carrying three young goats, one carrying three containers of bread, and one carrying a skin of wine. 
10:4: And they will entreat you in peace and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall take from their hands. 
10:5: After this, you shall come to the hill of God, which for the Philistines is the high place there. The Philistine Nasib is located there. And when you enter the city, you will meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a stringed instrument, a tambourine, a flute, and a harp before them. They will be prophesying. 
10:6: Then the Spirit of the Lord will come upon you, and you shall prophesy with them, and you shall be turned into another man. 
10:7: And when these signs shall come to pass for you, do all the many things your hand finds to do, because God is with you. 
10:8: You shall go down before me to Gilgal, and I will come down to you to offer burnt offerings and peace offerings. You shall wait for seven days, till I come to you and show you what to do.” 
10:9: So it came about that when he turned his back to depart from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all the signs came to pass on that day. 
10:10: And he came there to the hill, and behold there was a band of prophets opposite him, and the Spirit of God came upon him and he prophesied in the midst of them. 
10:11: It came about that all those who had seen him previously saw it, and behold, he was in the midst of the prophets. And the people said, each one to his neighbor, “What is this that has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?” 
10:12: Then one of them answered and said, “But who is his father?” Therefore it became a proverb: “Truly, even Saul is among the prophets.” 
10:13: And he finished prophesying and came to the hill. 
10:14: Then his kinsman said to him and his servant, “Where did you go?” So he said, “To look for the donkeys. We saw they were lost; we went to Samuel.” 
10:15: And the kinsman said to Saul, “What did Samuel say to you?” 
10:16: So Saul said to his kinsman, “In his explaining, he told me the donkeys were found.” But he did not tell him about the matter of the kingdom. 
10:17: Then Samuel proclaimed to all the people in the presence of the Lord at Mizpah, 
10:18: and to the sons of Israel he said, “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘I brought the sons of Israel up from Egypt and delivered you from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and from all the kingdoms that oppressed you.’ 
10:19: But today you rejected God, who Himself is your Savior, from all your adversities and tribulations. And you said to Him, ‘No! Set a king over us!’ Therefore, now stand before the Lord according to your tribes and according to your families.” 
10:20: Then Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and by lot the tribe of Benjamin was chosen. 
10:21: And he brought near the tribe of Benjamin by families, and by lot the family of Matri was chosen. And the men of the family of Matri came near, and by lot Saul, the son of Kish, was chosen. But when Samuel sought him, he could not be found. 
10:22: So Samuel asked yet again of the Lord, “Has this man come here yet?” And the Lord answered, “Look! He is there, hidden among the equipment.” 
10:23: So they ran and brought him from there. And when Saul stood among the people, he was a head taller than all the other people. 
10:24: Then Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see him whom the Lord has chosen for Himself, that there is no one like him among all of you?” All the people recognized and understood and said, “Long live the king!” 
10:25: Then Samuel explained to the people the custom of the king, and he wrote it in a book, and placed it before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, and every man went to his place. 
10:26: And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and with Saul, the sons of valor whose hearts the Lord inspired. 
10:27: But perverse men said, “How shall this man save us?” So they despised him, and brought him no gifts.

