21:1: So he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city. 
21:2: Now David came to Nob, to Abimelech the priest. And Abimelech was astonished when he met him, and said to him, “Why are you alone. Why is no one with you?” 
21:3: So David said to the priest, “Today, the king gave a command to me saying, ‘Do not let anyone know anything about the business on which I send you, or what I command you.’ And I gave orders to the young men to go to a place called the Faithfulness of God, Phellani Alemoni. 
21:4: Now if there are five loaves under your hand being ready, give them into my hand.” 
21:5: And the priest answered David and said, “There are no common loaves of bread on hand. There is holy bread but only if the young men have been keeping themselves from women, will they eat.” 
21:6: Then David answered the priest, and said to him, “Truly, we have kept ourselves from women for three days, with all the young men having been purified when I came on this journey. Even so, this expedition itself is unclean, thus because of my weapons, it shall be sanctified this day.” 
21:7: So Abimelech the priest gave him the showbread; for there were no loaves there except the bread of the Presence which had been removed from before the Lord, in order to put hot bread in its place when it was taken away. 
21:8: Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the Lord. His name was Doeg the Syrian, the herder of Saul’s mules. 
21:9: And David said to Abimelech, “See if there is a spear or a sword in your possession, for I brought neither my sword nor my weapons with me, for the message of the king required haste.” 
21:10: So the priest said, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the Valley of Elah, is there wrapped in a garment. If you take it, take it for yourself. For there is nothing else here except that.” And David said, “There is none like it. Give it to me.” 
21:11: And he gave it to him. Then David arose and fled that day from before Saul. And David went to Achish the king of Gath. 
21:12: And the servants of Achish said to him, “Is this not David, the king of the land? Is this not the one to whom the dancing women say, ‘Saul slew his thousands, And David his ten thousands’?” 
21:13: Now David took these words in his heart, and was very much afraid of Achish the king of Gath. 
21:14: So he changed his appearance before him and pretended to be mad on that day. He pounded on the doors of the city, and acted like a madman with his hands, falling down upon the door of the gate, and letting his saliva drip down on his beard. 
21:15: Then Achish said to his servants, “Look, you see the man is insane. Why did you bring him to me? 
21:16: Do I need madmen? Did you bring this fellow to be mad in my presence? This man will not come into the house!”

