28:1: Now in those days, the Philistines gathered their armies together to battle with Israel. And Achish said to David, “Know for sure, you shall enter into battle with me, you and your men.” 
28:2: And David said to Achish, “Thus you know what your servant will do.” And Achish said to David, “Therefore I will make you one of my chief guardians forever.” 
28:3: Now it happened that Samuel had died and all Israel lamented for him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul expelled those with divining spirits and the wizards out of the land. 
28:4: Then the Philistines came together and encamped at Shunem. So Saul collected all the men of Israel together and encamped at Gilboa. 
28:5: When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart was near panic. 
28:6: For when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord did not answer him by dreams, nor by clear signs, nor by the prophets. 
28:7: Then Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman with a divining spirit; I will go to her and inquire of her.” And his servants said to him, “In fact, there is a woman who is a medium at Endor.” 
28:8: So Saul disguised himself and put on other clothing. He then went out, taking two men with him, and by night they came to the woman. And he said to her, “Indeed, by the divining spirit, tell the future to me when you bring up to me whom I tell you.” 
28:9: Then the woman said to him, “Look, you know what Saul did, and how he cut off the diviners and the wizards from the land. Why do you lay a snare for my life, to cause me to be put to death?” 
28:10: And Saul swore to her, saying, “As the Lord lives, no injustice shall come upon you for this action.” 
28:11: Then the woman said, “Whom shall I bring up for you?” And he said, “Bring up Samuel for me.” 
28:12: When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice. And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, “Why did you deceive me? You are Saul!” 
28:13: But the king said to her, “Do not be afraid. What did you see?” And the woman said to him, “I saw gods ascending out of the earth.” 
28:14: So he said to her, “What did you perceive?” And she said, “A man is coming up, standing upright, and he is covered with a mantle.” And Saul discerned it to be Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground and bowed down to him. 
28:15: Now Samuel said to Saul, “Why did you trouble me by bringing me up?” And Saul answered, “I am deeply distressed. The Philistines are making war against me, and God has departed from me and does not answer me anymore, neither by the hand of prophets nor by dreams. Therefore I summoned you, to tell me what I should do.” 
28:16: Then Samuel said, “Why do you ask me when the Lord has departed from you and is with your enemy? 
28:17: And as the Lord spoke to you, by my hand, He has done. For the Lord will rend the kingdom out of your hand and will give it to your neighbor, David. 
28:18: For you did not heed the voice of the Lord nor execute His fierce wrath upon Amalek. This is why the Lord has done this to you today. 
28:19: And the Lord shall deliver Israel, including you, into the hand of the Philistines. Tomorrow you and your sons with you shall fall. The Lord will deliver the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.” 
28:20: Saul fell prostrate on the ground, for he was very afraid, because of Samuel’s words. And he was also weak since he had not eaten any food all that day and night. 
28:21: Then the woman came to Saul and saw his weakened condition. So she said to him, “Behold, when your handmaiden heard the sound of your voice, I put my life at risk and I obeyed the words you spoke to me. 
28:22: Now hear the voice of your handmaiden, and let me set a piece of bread before you. Eat and you will have strength when you go on your way.” 
28:23: But he refused to eat. So his servants, together with the woman, urged him, and he heeded their voice. He then arose from the ground and sat on the chariot-bench. 
28:24: Now the woman had a heifer roaming the pasture, and she hastened and killed it. Then she took flour and kneaded it, and from it she baked unleavened bread. 
28:25: And she brought it before Saul and his servants. They ate and departed that night.

