20:1: Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came before Jonathan and said, “What have I done, and what fault is mine? What is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?” 
20:2: So Jonathan said to him, “There is no fault on your part. You shall not die. Indeed, my father will do nothing either great or small without first telling me. And why should my father hide this thing? It is not so!” 
20:3: Then David answered Jonathan, and said, “Your father certainly knows I have found favor in your sight, and Saul has said, ‘Jonathan should not come to know about this. He will not want this to happen.’ But as the Lord lives and as you yourself live, so I say to you, there is only a step between me and death.” 
20:4: So Jonathan said to David, “What does your soul desire? What shall I do for you?” 
20:5: And David said to Jonathan, “Indeed tomorrow is the New Moon, and I will not sit with the king to eat. I will hide in the field until evening. 
20:6: If your father asks about me, say, ‘David earnestly asked permission of me that he might go to Bethlehem, his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for his whole tribe.’ 
20:7: If thus he says, ‘Peace be to your servant;’ it is well. But if he answers you harshly, know that he determines to do evil. 
20:8: Therefore you shall provide an act of mercy to your servant, for you brought your servant into a covenant of the Lord with you. And if there is wrongdoing in your servant, kill me yourself. Why should you bring me to your father?” 
20:9: But Jonathan said, “By no means will I do this to you! For if I know for sure that my father intends evil against you, I will come to you. If otherwise, I will tell you in your cities.” 
20:10: Then David said to Jonathan, “Who will tell me if your father should answer you harshly?” 
20:11: And Jonathan said to David, “Go, and remain in the field.” And they both went out into the field. 
20:12: Then Jonathan said to David, “The Lord God of Israel knows that I will question my father three times and behold, should there be good concerning David, and I do not send for you in the field, 
20:13: may the Lord do this to Jonathan and add to this even more, as also I shall discuss the evil against you. I will disclose it to your ear, and I will send you away. You shall depart in peace for the Lord will be with you as He was with my father. 
20:14: In return, you shall deal mercifully with me while I still live, and if I die, 
20:15: you shall not cut off your mercy from my house forever, even if the Lord does not cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth; 
20:16: or removes the name of Jonathan from the house of David; or the Lord does seek out the enemies of David.” 
20:17: And yet again, Jonathan swore to David, for he so loved him as his own soul. 
20:18: Then Jonathan said to David, “Tomorrow is the first of the month and you will be asked about, because your seat will be seen as empty. 
20:19: You will do this for three days, and you will be looked for. So go to the place where you may be hidden in the day of the deed. You shall wait by that mound. 
20:20: And then I will shoot three arrows, as aiming at a target. 
20:21: And behold, I will send a lad saying, ‘Come here! Find my arrows.’ If I speak to the lad saying, ‘Look, the arrows are here, on this side from you, get them here. Come!’—it is well with you, and as the Lord lives there is no reason to hide. 
20:22: But if I say this to the young man, ‘Look, the arrows are here and beyond you,’—you go, for the Lord has sent you away. 
20:23: And as for the word which you and I discussed, indeed the Lord is a witness between you and me forever.” 
20:24: So David hid in the field, and when the first of the month came, the king sat down to the table to eat. 
20:25: As usual, the king sat on his seat by the wall and arrived before Jonathan. Abner sat by Saul’s side, but David’s place was seen as empty. 
20:26: Saul said nothing that day, for he thought, “Something happened so that he is not clean; he has not cleansed himself.” 
20:27: And the next day, the second day of the month, David’s place was noticed as being empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, “Why has the son of Jesse not come to the table yesterday or today?” 
20:28: So Jonathan answered Saul and said to him, “David earnestly asked permission of me to go to Bethlehem his city. 
20:29: And he said, ‘Please let me go, for our tribe has a sacrifice in the city, and my brothers commanded me to be there. And now, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me go away safely and see my brothers.’ Therefore he has not come to the king’s table.” 
20:30: Then Saul’s anger was aroused greatly against Jonathan, and he said to him, “Son of traitorous girls! Do I not know to your own shame and the shame of your mother’s nakedness, that you are an accomplice with the son of Jesse? 
20:31: For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, your kingdom shall not be established. Now then, send and bring the young man, for he is a son of death.” 
20:32: And Jonathan queried Saul, “Why should he be killed? What did he do?” 
20:33: Then Saul lifted up a spear against Jonathan to kill him and Jonathan knew the evil from his father to kill David. 
20:34: So Jonathan leapt up from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the month. For he was grieved for David, because his father plotted against him. 
20:35: And so in the morning, Jonathan went out to the field at the appointed time, as a testimony for David. A lad was with him. 
20:36: Then he said to his lad, “Run, find for me the arrows I shoot.” As the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him. 
20:37: And when the lad came to the place where Jonathan shot the arrow, Jonathan cried out to the lad and said, “There is the arrow beyond you.” 
20:38: And Jonathan cried out after his lad, “Make haste, hurry, do not delay!” So Jonathan’s lad gathered up the arrows for his master. 
20:39: And the lad knew nothing of what was happening. Only Jonathan and David knew of the matter. 
20:40: Then Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad, and said to the lad, “Go, enter into the city.” 
20:41: As soon as the lad left, David arose from the mound, fell on his face, and bowed down three times. And they kissed one another, and wept for each other. 
20:42: Then Jonathan said, “Go in peace, and as we both swore in the name of the Lord saying, ‘The Lord will be a witness between you and me, and between your seed and my seed, forever.’ ”

