26:1: Now the Ziphites came out of the desert country, to Saul at Gibeah, saying, “Look, David hides from us at the Hill Hachilah, opposite Jeshimon.” 
26:2: Then Saul arose and went down to the desert of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the Desert of Ziph. 
26:3: And Saul encamped by the road in the hill Hachilah, opposite Jeshimon. But David stayed in the desert, and he could see that Saul was coming into the desert, to pursue him. 
26:4: And David sent out spies and learned Saul came out of Keilah well-armed. 
26:5: So David secretly arose and came to the place where Saul lay. Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army was there too. Now Saul lay in a covered chariot and the people encamped round about him. 
26:6: Then David spoke up to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, saying, “Who will go with me to Saul in the camp?” And Abishai said, “I will go with you.” 
26:7: So that night, David and Abishai went in among the troops, and there lay Saul asleep in the covered chariot. His spear was jammed into the ground by his head. And Abner and the troops were sleeping all around him. 
26:8: Then Abishai said to David, “The Lord places your enemy in your hand this very day. Once and for all, let me strike him with the spear that is in the ground. I will not strike him again.” 
26:9: And David said to Abishai, “Do not bring him down, for who can bring his own hand against the anointed of the Lord and go unpunished?” 
26:10: David said, “As the Lord lives, the Lord shall strike him, or his day may come to die, or he may go out to battle and be added to his fathers. 
26:11: The Lord forbid me that I should bring my own hand against the anointed of the Lord. But indeed, take the spear from by his head and the container of water, and let us both go.” 
26:12: So David took the spear by Saul’s head and the container of water, and they went away. No one noticed or knew what happened or even awoke. All were sleeping because a deep sleep from the Lord fell upon them. 
26:13: Now David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off. There was a great distance between them. 
26:14: And David called out to the people and spoke to Abner, saying, “Do you not answer, Abner?” Then Abner answered and said, “Who is that calling out to me?” 
26:15: So David said to Abner, “Are you not a man? And who is like you in Israel? If so, then why do you not guard your lord the king? For one of the people entered your camp to destroy your lord the king. 
26:16: And this thing which you allowed to happen is not good. As the Lord lives, you are sons of death—you guarding the lord your king, the anointed of the Lord. Now look and tell me where is the king’s spear that was by his head, and the jug of water?” 
26:17: Then Saul recognized David’s voice and said, “Is that truly your voice, my son David?” And David said, “It is your servant, my lord, O King.” 
26:18: And David said, “Why is my lord pursuing his servant? How have I sinned? What wrong have you found in me? 
26:19: Now let my lord the king hear his servant’s words: If God incites you against me, let Him accept the scent of your offering. If the sons of men incite you against me, let these men be cursed before the Lord. For today by their saying, ‘Go, serve other gods,’ they show their desire to cast me out in order to prevent me from being established in the inheritance of the Lord. 
26:20: Now do not let my blood fall to the ground before the face of the Lord. For the king of Israel comes here to seek my life, like one who hunts a horned owl in the mountains.” 
26:21: Then Saul said, “I have sinned. Return, my son David. For I will harm you no more, because my life was precious in your eyes this day. Indeed I have played the fool and erred exceedingly.” 
26:22: And David answered and said, “Behold, the spear of the king. Let one of the servants come over and receive it. 
26:23: And the Lord shall repay each man for his righteousness and his faithfulness, as the Lord delivered you into my hands today, though I did not lift my hand against the Lord’s anointed. 
26:24: Indeed! As your life was exalted this day in my eyes, in this same way, let my life be exalted before the Lord and let Him shelter and deliver me from every tribulation.” 
26:25: Then Saul said to David, “May you be blessed, my son! You shall do great things and be mighty.” So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.

