5:1: The Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. 
5:2: And the Philistines took the ark of the Lord, and brought it into the house of their god Dagon. They set it by Dagon. 
5:3: And when the people of Ashdod arose early in the morning, they entered the house of Dagon, and they looked and beheld Dagon falling on its face, in the presence of the ark of God. So they raised Dagon and returned it to its place. And the hand of the Lord was heavy upon Ashdod. He tormented all within her borders; He smote them in their private parts. 
5:4: Then it came to pass, when they arose early in the morning, behold Dagon had again fallen on his face before the ark of the covenant of the Lord. And the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were broken off, each in front of the threshold, and both the wrists of his hands were leaning on the doorway; only the torso of Dagon remained. 
5:5: So to this day, the priests of Dagon, and any who come into the house of Dagon do not tread on, but step over, the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod because of this. 
5:6: But the hand of the Lord was heavy on the people of Ashdod. He came upon them and in their ships. He brought forth disease among them. He infested their country with mice, and there was a great calamity of death in the city. 
5:7: And when the men of Ashdod saw how it was, they said, “The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for His hand is harsh upon us and Dagon our god.” 
5:8: Therefore they sent and brought together all the lords of the Philistines in the same place and said, “What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?” And the people of Gath said, “Let the ark of the God of Israel come to us.” So the ark of God came to Gath. 
5:9: And it came to be, after it entered Gath, that the hand of the Lord came upon the city. An exceedingly great state of confusion struck the men of the city, both small and great. He struck them in their private parts, and they made for themselves images of these. 
5:10: Then they sent away the ark of God to Ashkelon, and it came about when the ark of God came to Ashkelon, the people of Ashkelon cried out, saying, “Why did you turn the ark of the God of Israel toward us to kill us and our people?” 
5:11: So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, “Send away the ark of the God of Israel and let it return to its own place, so it does not kill us and our people,” for it came about that a widespread panic of death spread throughout the entire city. 
5:12: And the living and those not dying were struck in their private parts, and the outcry of the city went up to heaven.

