16:1: Now the Lord said to Samuel, “How long will you mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill your horn with olive oil and come. I will send you to Jesse in Bethlehem, for I have seen someone among his sons to reign for Me.” 
16:2: And Samuel said, “How can I go? Saul will hear it and he will kill me.” And the Lord said, “Take a heifer in your arms, and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. 
16:3: Then invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what to do. You shall anoint the one I tell you.” 
16:4: So Samuel did everything the Lord said to him and went to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town were astonished at meeting him, and they said, “Seer, do you come in peace?” 
16:5: And he said, “Peaceably I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Sanctify yourselves and rejoice with me today.” Then he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and he invited them to the sacrifice. 
16:6: And it came to be when they entered that Samuel looked at Eliab and said, “Surely the anointed of the Lord is before Him.” 
16:7: But the Lord said to Samuel, “Have no regard for his outward appearance nor for the maturity of his stature, because I have refused him. For man does not see as God sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord sees into the heart.” 
16:8: So Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And Samuel said, “The Lord did not choose this one either.” 
16:9: Then Jesse brought Shammah. But Samuel said, “Nor has the Lord chosen this one.” 
16:10: Thus Jesse brought seven of his sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, “The Lord has not chosen these.” 
16:11: Then Samuel said to Jesse, “Are there any other young men here?” Then Jesse said, “There remains yet the youngest, keeping the sheep.” And Samuel said to Jesse, “Send and bring him. For we will not sit down till he comes here.” 
16:12: So he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with bright eyes, and good-looking to the Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, “Arise, anoint David; for he is good!” 
16:13: Then Samuel took the horn of olive oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel arose and went to Ramah. 
16:14: But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord tormented him. 
16:15: And Saul’s servants said to him, “Behold, an evil spirit from the Lord is tormenting you. 
16:16: Now let your servants speak before you, and let them seek for our lord a man who knows how to play the harp. And it will come to pass when the evil spirit is upon you, he will play his harp, and it will be good for you and give you rest.” 
16:17: So Saul said to his servants, “Indeed, seek out for me a man who plays skillfully and bring him to me.” 
16:18: Then one of his servants answered and said, “Look, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who understands playing on the harp, a prudent man, a man of war, wise in speech, handsome; and the Lord is with him.” 
16:19: Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, “Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.” 
16:20: And Jesse took a homer of bread, a skin of wine, and one young goat, and sent them by the hand of his son David to Saul. 
16:21: So David came to Saul and stood before him. And he loved him greatly, and he became his armor bearer. 
16:22: Then Saul sent to Jesse, saying, “Let David stand here before me, for he has found favor in my sight.” 
16:23: So whenever the evil spirit was upon Saul, David would take a harp and play it with his hand. Then Saul would become well-refreshed, and the evil spirit would depart from him.

