24:1: Then David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds at En Gedi. 
24:2: Now when Saul returned from following the Philistines, it was reported to him, saying, “David is in the desert of En Gedi.” 
24:3: Then he took three thousand chosen men from all Israel, and went to seek David and his men on the face of Sadaiem. 
24:4: On the way, he came across a flock of sheep, and nearby there was a cave. Saul entered the cave to make preparations. Now sitting in the recesses of this same cave, was David and his men. 
24:5: And David’s men said to him, “Look! This is the day of which the Lord spoke to you; that He would deliver your enemy into your hands, to do to him as it seems good from your perspective.” So David arose and secretly cut off a corner of Saul’s robe. 
24:6: Then it happened that David’s heart afflicted him afterward, because he cut the corner of his robe. 
24:7: And David said to his men, “The Lord forbid me, that I should do this to my lord, for he is the anointed of the Lord.” 
24:8: By these words David persuaded his men not to rise up and kill Saul. So Saul got up from the cave and went his way. 
24:9: After Saul departed, David went out from the cave and cried out to Saul, saying, “My lord, O king!” And Saul looked back and David, bowing to the ground, prostrated himself. 
24:10: And David said to Saul, “Why do you listen to the words of the people who say, ‘Behold, David seeks your life?’ 
24:11: Take notice! This day your eyes have seen that the Lord had delivered you into my hand in the cave; but I would not kill you. I spared you and said, ‘I will not put my hand against my lord, for he is the Lord’s anointed.’ 
24:12: Here in my hand, is the corner of your robe! I cut off the corner, but did not kill you. See and know today, there is no evil or impiety or breach of faith in my hand. I have not sinned against you. Yet you hunt my life to take it. 
24:13: Let the Lord pass judgment between you and me, and let the Lord vindicate me from you. But my hand shall not be against you. 
24:14: As the ancient proverb says, ‘Out of lawlessness shall come wrongdoing, but my hand will not be against you.’ 
24:15: Now after whom do you seek, O King of Israel? Whom do you hunt after? Are you after a dying dog or perhaps a flea? 
24:16: Let the Lord be judge and jury, each one in my midst, and each one in your midst. And let the Lord observe and decide my judgment and vindicate me from your hand.” 
24:17: And it came to pass, when David finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, “Truly this is your voice, O son David.” And Saul lifted up his voice and wept. 
24:18: Then he said to David, “You are more righteous than I, for you repaid me with good, but I repaid you with evil. 
24:19: Today, you make known how you dealt well with me, how when the Lord delivered me in your hand today, you did not kill me. 
24:20: For if a man finds his enemy in distress and yet in a good way, sends him out, the Lord will reward him with good, just as you did today. 
24:21: And now behold, I know that you shall be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hands. 
24:22: Therefore by the Lord, swear now to me that you will not cut off my seed after me, and that you will not destroy my name from my father’s house.” 
24:23: So David swore to Saul. And Saul went to his place, but David and his men went up to the stronghold at Messara.

