29:1: All the encampments of the Philistines gathered at Aphek, and the Israelites encamped in Endor in Jezreel. 
29:2: And the captains of the Philistines passed in review by hundreds and by thousands. David and his men passed in review at the rear with Achish. 
29:3: Then the captains of the Philistines said, “Who are these passing by in review?” And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul king of Israel? The one who has been with us daily for the last two years? I have found no fault in him from the day he defected to me until today.” 
29:4: But the commanders of the Philistines were grieved because of him; so they said to him, “Return the man to the place you appointed for him. Do not let him go with us to battle for fear that he become our adversary in the battle. For what better way could he have to reconcile himself to his lord, if not with the heads of these men? 
29:5: Is this not David, about whom they sang in dances, saying: ‘Saul slew his thousands, And David his ten thousands?’ ” 
29:6: Then Achish called David and said to him, “Surely, as the Lord lives, you have been upright with me in the camp and good in my sight, in both your going out and your coming in. To this very day I have found no evil in you since the day of your coming to me. Nevertheless, you are not favored in the sight of the lords of the Philistines. 
29:7: Therefore return now, and go in peace, thus you shall not do evil in the sight of the lords of the Philistines.” 
29:8: So David said to Achish, “But what have I done to you? And from the day I came up to you, to this day, what in your servant have you found, that I may not fight against the enemies of my lord the king?” 
29:9: Then Achish answered to David, “I know that you are good in my sight; nevertheless, the commanders of the Philistines said, ‘He shall not go up with us to the battle.’ 
29:10: Now rise up early in the morning, you and your servants who came with you, and go to the place I established for you. Do not keep an evil thought in your heart, because you are good in my sight. And rise early in the morning, and depart at first light.” 
29:11: So David arose early, he and his men, to depart and to guard the land of the Philistines. The Philistines went up to battle at Jezreel.

