3:1: Now Solomon began to build the house of the Lord at Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where the Lord had appeared to his father David, at the place that David had prepared on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
3:2: And he began to build on the second day of the second month in the fourth year of his reign. 
3:3: This is the foundation Solomon laid for building the house of God. It was sixty cubits long (according to the former measure) and twenty cubits wide. 
3:4: The vestibule in front of the sanctuary was twenty cubits long across the width of the house, and one hundred twenty cubits high. He overlaid the inside with pure gold. 
3:5: He paneled the larger room with cypress and overlaid it with fine gold, and he carved palm trees and chain work on it. 
3:6: He decorated the house with precious stones for beauty, and the gold was gold from Parvaim. 
3:7: He also overlaid the house—the beams and doorposts, its walls and doors—with gold and carved cherubim on the walls. 
3:8: And he made the most holy place. Its length corresponded to the width of the house, twenty cubits, and it was twenty cubits wide. He overlaid it as far as the cherubim with six hundred talents of fine gold. 
3:9: The weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. He overlaid the upper room with gold. 
3:10: In the most holy place he made two wooden cherubim and overlaid them with gold. 
3:11: The wings of the cherubim were twenty cubits in overall length. One wing of the one cherub was five cubits, touching the wall of the room, and the other wing was five cubits, touching the wing of the other cherub; 
3:12: one wing of the other cherub was five cubits as well, touching the wall of the room, and the other wing also was five cubits, touching the wing of the other cherub. 
3:13: The wings of these cherubim spanned twenty cubits overall. They stood on their feet and faced inward. 
3:14: He made the veil of blue, purple, crimson, and fine linen, and wove cherubim into it. 
3:15: In front of the house he made two pillars thirty-five cubits high, and the capital on the top of each was five cubits. 
3:16: He made wreaths of chain work, as in the inner sanctuary, and put them on top of the pillars. And he made one hundred pomegranates and put them on the wreaths of chain work. 
3:17: Then he set up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand and the other on the left. He called the one on the right hand Upholding, and he called the one on the left Strength.

