16:1: In the thirty-eighth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah and built Ramah, so that no one could go out or come in to Asa king of Judah. 
16:2: Then Asa brought silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of the Lord and the king’s house. He sent them to the son of Hadad the king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus, saying, 
16:3: “Let there be a treaty between you and me, as there was between my father and your father. Here, I have sent you silver and gold. Come and drive away Baasha king of Israel so that he will withdraw from me.” 
16:4: So the son of Hadad heeded King Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel. They attacked Ijon, Dan, Abel Maim, and all the areas around Naphtali. 
16:5: Now when Baasha heard it, he stopped building Ramah and ceased his work. 
16:6: Then King Asa took all of Judah, and they carried away the stones and timber of Ramah which Baasha had used for building. With them he built Geba and Mizpah. 
16:7: And at that time, Hanani the prophet came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, “Because you relied on the king of Syria and did not rely on the Lord your God, therefore the army of the king of Syria escaped from your hand. 
16:8: Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubim a large and courageous army with a great many chariots and horsemen? Yet, because you relied on the Lord, He delivered them into your hand. 
16:9: For the eyes of the Lord look over the whole earth and strengthen every heart that is loyal to Him. In this you did foolishly, and from now on you shall have wars.” 
16:10: Asa was angry at the prophet and he put him in prison, for because of this he was enraged at him. And at that time Asa oppressed some of the people. 
16:11: Now the acts of Asa, first and last, are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
16:12: In the thirty-ninth year of his reign, Asa became diseased in his feet, and his malady was severe. And in his disease he sought physicians rather than the Lord. 
16:13: So Asa rested with his fathers. He died in the thirty-ninth year of his reign. 
16:14: They buried him in the tomb he had made for himself in the City of David. And they laid him in a bed filled with spices and various ingredients prepared in a mixture of ointments. They made a very great funeral for him.

