25:1: Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for twentynine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 
25:2: And he did what was right in the sight of the Lord, but not with a loyal heart. 
25:3: As soon as the kingdom was established for him, he executed his servants who murdered his father the king. 
25:4: However, he did not execute their children, for as it is written in the Law in the Book of Moses where the Lord commands, saying, “The fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor shall the sons be put to death for their fathers, but each person shall die for his own sin.” 
25:5: Amaziah gathered the house of Judah then according to their fathers’ houses throughout Judah and Jerusalem, and set over them captains of thousands and captains of hundreds. He numbered them from twenty years old and above, and found there were three hundred thousand mighty men who could go to war with spear and shield. 
25:6: And from Israel for one hundred talents of silver he hired one hundred thousand mighty men of valor. 
25:7: But a man of God came to him, saying, “King, the army of Israel will not go with you, for the Lord is not with Israel, nor with any of the sons of Ephraim; 
25:8: and if you try to be strong in battle, the Lord will cast you down before the enemy, for the Lord has power to strengthen and to overthrow.” 
25:9: Then Amaziah said to the man of God, “But what shall we do about the hundred talents I gave the army of Israel?” And the man of God answered, “The Lord can give you more than this.” 
25:10: So Amaziah discharged the troops that had come to him from Ephraim and sent them back home. Therefore their anger was greatly aroused against Judah, and they returned home in great anger. 
25:11: And Amaziah strengthened himself and led his people and went to the Valley of Salt, where he killed ten thousand of the sons of Seir. 
25:12: The sons of Judah took ten thousand men captive, brought them to the top of the rock, and cast them down from there. They were all dashed to pieces. 
25:13: As for the sons of the army Amaziah discharged so they would not go to war with him, they raided the cities of Judah from Samaria to Beth Horon and killed three thousand in them, and took a great deal of spoil. 
25:14: After Amaziah came from the slaughter of the Edomites, he brought the gods of the sons of Seir, set them up to be his gods, and bowed down before them and burned incense to them. 
25:15: Therefore the anger of the Lord was aroused against Amaziah, and He sent prophets who said to him, “Why did you seek the gods of the people who could not rescue their own people from your hand?” 
25:16: As he talked with him, the king said to him, “Have we made you the king’s counselor? Be careful so that you are not scourged!” Then the prophet ceased, and said, “I know that God determines to destroy you, because you did not heed my advice and you did this thing.” 
25:17: Now Amaziah king of Judah sought advice and sent to Joash the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu the king of Israel, saying, “Come, let us face one another in battle.” 
25:18: And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thistle in Lebanon sent to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son as wife,’ and the beasts of the field will come in Lebanon, and the beasts came and trampled the thistle. 
25:19: Indeed, you say you defeated the Edomites, and your heart is lifted up to boast. Stay at home now. Why should you meddle with trouble and fall, you and Judah with you?” 
25:20: But Amaziah did not listen, as it came from God for him to be given into the hands of his enemies, since he sought the gods of Edom. 
25:21: So Joash king of Israel went out, and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced one another at Beth Shemesh, which belongs to Judah. 
25:22: And Judah was defeated by Israel, and every man fled to his tent. 
25:23: Then Joash the king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, at Beth Shemesh. And Joash brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the walls of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate—four hundred cubits. 
25:24: And he took all the gold and silver, all the articles that were found in the house of the Lord with Obed-Edom, the treasures of the king’s house, and the sons of mixed marriages, and returned to Samaria. 
25:25: Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived for fifteen years after the death of Joash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 
25:26: Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, from first to last, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel? 
25:27: When Amaziah turned from the Lord, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they went after him to Lachish and killed him there. 
25:28: Then they brought him on horses and buried him with his fathers in the City of David.

