22:1: And in his place, the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, his youngest son, king, for the raiders who came into the camp with the Arabians and the Alimazones killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, was made king. 
22:2: Ahaziah was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned for one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri. 
22:3: He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor in sinning. 
22:4: He did evil in the sight of the Lord, similarly to the house of Ahab, for after the death of his father they were his counselors to his destruction. 
22:5: He followed their advice and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth Gilead, whose archers wounded Joram. 
22:6: Joram returned to Jezreel to recover from his wounds the Syrians inflicted in Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick. 
22:7: His going to Jehoram was God’s opportunity for Ahaziah’s downfall. For when he arrived, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom the Lord had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab. 
22:8: And when Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he found both the princes of Judah, and the sons of Ahaziah’s brothers who served Ahaziah, and killed them. 
22:9: Jehu gave orders to search for Ahaziah in Samaria where he was recuperating, and they brought him to Jehu. After they killed him, they buried him, because they said, “He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the Lord with all his heart.” Thus there was no one in the house of Ahaziah to assume power over the kingdom. 
22:10: Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal heirs of the house of Judah. 
22:11: But Jehoshabeath the king’s daughter took Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king’s sons being murdered, and she put him and his nurse in a bedroom. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of King Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest—for she was the sister of Ahaziah—hid him from Athaliah, so she did not kill him. 
22:12: He remained hidden with them in the house of God for six years while Athaliah reigned over the land.

