1:1: When Solomon the son of David was firmly established over his kingdom, the Lord his God was with him and magnified him in honor. 
1:2: Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, to the judges, to all the rulers over Israel, and to the heads of the families. 
1:3: Solomon went with all the assembly to the high place at Gibeon, for the tabernacle of meeting with God was there, which Moses the servant of the Lord made in the wilderness. 
1:4: David had brought up the ark of God from the city of Kirjath Jearim to the place he prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem. 
1:5: And the bronze altar made by Bezalel the son of Uri the son of Hur was there before the tabernacle of the Lord, and Solomon and the assembly enquired about it. 
1:6: Solomon made an offering there on the bronze altar before the Lord, at the tabernacle of meeting, offering a thousand burnt offerings on it. 
1:7: God appeared to Solomon that night and said to him, “Tell Me what you want Me to give you.” 
1:8: And Solomon said to God, “You showed great mercy to David my father, and made me king in his place. 
1:9: Now, Lord God, let Your name be established on my father David, for You made me king over a people numerous as the dust of the earth. 
1:10: Give me wisdom and understanding, so that I may go out and come in before this people, for who can judge this great people of Yours?” 
1:11: And God said to Solomon, “Because this was in your heart and you did not ask for riches or wealth or honor or the life of your enemies, nor did you ask for long life, but you asked for wisdom and understanding for yourself, that you might judge My people over whom I made you king, 
1:12: now I will give you this wisdom and understanding. I will also give you riches and wealth and honor, such as none of the kings before you possessed, nor shall any after you possess.” 
1:13: So Solomon came to Jerusalem from the high place at Gibeon, from before the tabernacle of witness, and reigned over Israel. 
1:14: And Solomon collected chariots and horsemen. He had one thousand four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he stationed in the chariot cities. And the people were with the king in Jerusalem. 
1:15: The king made silver and gold as plentiful in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedars as abundant in Judea as sycamores in the plain. 
1:16: And Solomon had horses imported from Egypt; the king’s merchants paid the going price. 
1:17: They acquired and imported from Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty. They also brought them to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of Syria. 
1:18: Solomon said he would build a house in the name of the Lord and a house for his kingdom.

