36:1: Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah, and anointed him and established him as king in his father’s place in Jerusalem. 
36:2: Jehoahaz was twentythree years old when he became king, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem. 
36:3: And his mother’s name was Amital the daughter of Jeremiah from Lobema. 
36:4: And he did evil before the Lord according to everything his fathers did. 
36:5: And Pharoah Necho bound him in Deble in the land of Emath, lest he reign in Jerusalem. 
36:6: The king of Egypt carried him away to Egypt, and he imposed on the land a tribute of one hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. 
36:7: Then Pharaoh Necho made Josiah’s son Eliakim king over Judah in place of his father Josiah, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Pharaoh Necho took Jehoahaz his brother and carried him off to Egypt, where he died. 
36:8: And he gave silver and gold to Pharaoh. Then the land began to be taxed to give silver to feed Pharaoh, and each one asked as he was able for silver and gold from the people of the land to give to Pharaoh Necho. 
36:9: Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Zechora the daughter of Neriou from Rama. And as his fathers did, he did evil in the sight of the Lord his God in all things. 
36:10: In those days, Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came to the land, and he served him three years and revolted from him. 
36:11: And the Lord sent the Chaldeans against them, and bands of robbers from Syria, and bands of robbers from the Moabites, and the sons of Ammon and Samaria. But after this they departed, according to the word of the Lord by the hand of his servants the prophets. 
36:12: But the wrath of the Lord was on Judah because they rebelled against Him through the sins of Manasseh in all he did, 
36:13: and in the innocent blood Jehoiakim shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, and the Lord did not want to destroy him. 
36:14: Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came up against him and bound him in bronze fetters and carried him off to Babylon. 
36:15: He carried off some of the articles from the house of the Lord to Babylon and put them in his temple in Babylon. 
36:16: And the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and all he did, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah? And Jehoiakim rested with his fathers and was buried in Ganoza with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place. 
36:17: Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for three months and ten days. And he did evil in the sight of the Lord. 
36:18: At the turn of the year, King Nebuchadnezzar summoned him and brought him to Babylon with the costly articles from the house of the Lord, and made Zedekiah, his father’s brother, king over Judah and Jerusalem. 
36:19: Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem. 
36:20: He did evil in the sight of the Lord his God and was not ashamed before Jeremiah the prophet, nor because of the word of the Lord. 
36:21: He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar and broke the oath he swore by God. But he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart, turning against the Lord God of Israel. 
36:22: Moreover all the nobles of Judah and the leaders and the priests and the people transgressed more and more, following all the abominations of the nations, and defiled the house of the Lord in Jerusalem. 
36:23: And the Lord God of their fathers sent them warnings by His messengers, rising up early and sending His messengers, because He spared His people and His dwelling place. 
36:24: But they mocked His messengers, despised His words, and scoffed at His prophets, until the wrath of the Lord rose against His people and there was no remedy. 
36:25: Therefore He brought against them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young men with the sword in the house of His sanctuary, and did not spare Zedekiah or have pity on the virgins, and he led away the aged. He gave everything into their hands. 
36:26: And all the articles from the house of God, great and small, the treasures of the house of the Lord and the treasures of the king and his nobles, he took all these to Babylon. 
36:27: Then he burned the house of God, broke down the wall of Jerusalem, burned all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all its precious possessions. 
36:28: And he settled those remaining in Babylon, where they became servants to him and his sons until the rule of the kingdom of the Medes, 
36:29: to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths. As long as she lay desolate, she kept the Sabbath, until seventy years had passed. 
36:30: In the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, after the fulfillment of the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia and told him to make a proclamation throughout all his kingdom in writing, saying, 
36:31: “Thus says Cyrus king of Persia to all the kingdoms of the earth: ‘The Lord God of heaven gave to me even a command, to build for Him a house in Jerusalem of Judah. Is there anyone from among you, from among all the people God will be with? Let him go up to Jerusalem.’ ”

