4:1: He made a bronze altar twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and ten cubits high. 
4:2: And he made the sea of cast bronze, ten cubits in diameter. It was completely round. It was five cubits high and thirty cubits around. 
4:3: Under it were the likenesses of oxen encircling it all around, ten to a cubit, all the way around the sea. The oxen were cast in two rows when it was cast. 
4:4: It stood on twelve oxen. Three looked toward the north, three looked toward the west, three looked toward the south, and three looked toward the east. The sea was set upon them, and all their back parts pointed inward. 
4:5: It was a handbreadth thick and its brim was like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom. It contained three thousand baths. And he finished it. 
4:6: He also made ten basins, and put five on the right side and five on the left, to wash what they offered for the burnt offering. The sea, however, was for the priests to wash in. 
4:7: He made ten gold lampstands according to their design and set them in the temple, five on the right and five on the left. 
4:8: He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the right and five on the left. And he made one hundred golden bowls. 
4:9: He made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid the door panels with bronze. 
4:10: He set the sea on the right side toward the east. 
4:11: Then Huram made the pots and the shovels and the bowls for the altar and all its utensils. So Huram finished the work he was to do for King Solomon for the house of God, 
4:12: the two pillars and the bowl-shaped capitals on top of the two pillars, the two networks covering the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars; 
4:13: four hundred pomegranates for the two networks—two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals on the pillars. 
4:14: He made carts and put basins on the carts, 
4:15: and one sea with twelve oxen under it, 
4:16: and tripods and buckets and basins and forks and all the other utensils. Huram his master craftsman made them of pure bronze for King Solomon for the house of the Lord. 
4:17: The king had them cast in clay molds in the plain of Jordan between Succoth and Zeredah. 
4:18: And Solomon had all these articles made in such great quantity that the weight of the bronze was not determined. 
4:19: Solomon had all the furnishings made for the house of God, the golden altar and the tables for the showbread, 
4:20: the lamp stands with their lamps of pure gold, to burn in the prescribed manner in front of the inner sanctuary, 
4:21: with the tongs and the lamps and the cups and the censers of pure gold. 
4:22: The door of the sanctuary, the inner door to the most holy place, and the doors of the main hall of the temple were gold.

