5:1: So all the work that Solomon did for the house of the Lord was finished. And Solomon brought in everything his father David had dedicated, the silver and the gold and all the furnishings. And he put them in the treasuries of the house of God. 
5:2: Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the families of the sons of Israel, in Jerusalem, that they might bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the City of David, which is Zion. 
5:3: Therefore all the men of Israel assembled with the king at the feast in the seventh month. 
5:4: All the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark. 
5:5: Then they brought up the ark, the tabernacle of meeting, and all the holy furnishings in the tabernacle. The priests and the Levites carried it. 
5:6: And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel assembled with him in fear before the ark, sacrificing more sheep and oxen than could be counted or numbered. 
5:7: Then the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place in the inner sanctuary of the temple, to the most holy place, under the wings of the cherubim. 
5:8: For the cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim overshadowed the ark and its poles. 
5:9: And the poles extended so that the ends of the poles of the ark could be seen from the holy place, in front of the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen from outside. And they are there to this day. 
5:10: There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets Moses put there at Horeb when the Lord made a covenant with the sons of Israel when they came out of Egypt. 
5:11: And when the priests came from the holy place (for all the priests who were present were sanctified before being separated into divisions), 
5:12: and the Levites and the singers of Asaph and Heman and Jeduthun, with their sons and their brethren, stood at the east end of the altar, clothed in white linen, having cymbals, stringed instruments, and harps, and with them were one hundred twenty priests sounding with trumpets; 
5:13: and the trumpeters and singers were as one voice in sounding the trumpet and singing and in praising and thanking the Lord. And when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, they praised the Lord, saying: “Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good, For His mercy endures forever.” The house was filled with a cloud of the Lord’s glory, 
5:14: so the priests could not continue ministering because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God.

