37:1: “O Lord Almighty, the God of our fathers, of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and their righteous seed;
37:2: who made heaven and earth with all their ornamentation;
37:3: who set the bounds of the sea by the word of Your command; who closed the abyss and sealed it by Your fearful and glorious name;
37:4: before whom all things tremble and fear because of Your power;
37:5: for the majesty of Your glory is unbearable, and the wrath of Your threats toward sinners cannot be withstood;
37:6: yet Your merciful promise is immeasurable and unsearchable.
37:7: For You are the Lord Most High, and are tenderhearted, patient, very merciful, and who repent toward the evils of man.
37:8: “Therefore You, O Lord God of the righteous, have not appointed repentance for the righteous, for Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who have not sinned against You; but You have appointed repentance for me, a sinner,
37:9: because I have sinned more than the number of the sands on the seashore. My lawlessness, O Lord, is multiplied. Yes, my lawlessness is multiplied, and I am not worthy to fix my eyes to behold the heights of heaven because of the multitude of my wrongdoings.
37:10: I am bent down with so many iron chains that I shake my head over my sins, neither do I have any relief. For I have provoked Your anger and done evil in your sight. I have set up abominations and multiplied idols.
37:11: “Now therefore, I bow the knee of my heart, begging goodness from You.
37:12: I have sinned, O Lord, I have sinned, and I know my lawlessness.
37:13: I ask and beg you: forgive me, O Lord, forgive me, and do not destroy me because of my lawlessness; neither reserve evils for me, nor be wrathful forever; nor condemn me to the lowest parts of the earth; for You are the Lord God of those who repent.
37:14: And in me, though I am unworthy, You will show Your goodness, and will save me according to Your great mercy.
37:15: Therefore I shall praise You continually all the days of my life, for all the powers of the heavens praise You, and Yours is the glory unto the ages. Amen.”
