11:1: When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled one hundred eighty thousand young men, warriors from Judah and Benjamin, to fight against Israel and restore the kingdom to Rehoboam. 
11:2: But the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying, 
11:3: “Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon and to all Judah and Benjamin, saying, 
11:4: ‘Thus says the Lord: “You shall not go up and fight against your brethren! Let every man return to his house, for this is from Me.” ’ ” And they obeyed the words of the Lord and turned back from marching against Jeroboam. 
11:5: So Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem and built cities with walls in Judah. 
11:6: He built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa, 
11:7: Beth Zur, Sochoh, Adullam, 
11:8: Gath, Mareshah, Ziph, 
11:9: Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah, 
11:10: Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron, walled cities which belong to Judah and Benjamin. 
11:11: He fortified them with walls and put captains in them and stores of food, olive oil, and wine. 
11:12: In every city he put shields and spears and made them very strong, and they belonged to Judah and Benjamin. 
11:13: And the priests and the Levites throughout Israel gathered to him from all their regions. 
11:14: For the Levites left the habitations of their possessions and came to Judah and Jerusalem, because Jeroboam and his sons had rejected them from serving the Lord. 
11:15: Then he appointed for himself priests for the high places and the idols, and the vain things and the calves Jeroboam had made. 
11:16: Then Jeroboam cast them out of the tribes of Israel, those who had set their heart on seeking the Lord God of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the Lord God of their fathers. 
11:17: So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah and strengthened Rehoboam the son of Solomon for three years, because he walked in the ways of David and Solomon for three years. 
11:18: Then Rehoboam took as his wife Mahalath, the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David, and of Abihail the daughter of Eliah the son of Jesse. 
11:19: And she bore him children: Jeush, Shamariah, and Zaham. 
11:20: Then he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom, and she bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith. 
11:21: Now Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom more than all his wives and concubines, for he took eighteen wives and thirty concubines and begot twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. 
11:22: And Rehoboam appointed Abijah the son of Maachah as chief to be the leader among his brothers, for he intended to make him king. 
11:23: He grew more powerful than all his sons throughout the territories of Judah and Benjamin and in all the fortified cities, and he gave them provisions in abundance. He also sought many wives for them.

