21:1: Jehoshaphat rested with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the City of David. Then Jehoram his son reigned in his place. 
21:2: He had six brothers, Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azaryahu, Michael, and Shephatiah; all were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Judah. 
21:3: Their father gave them many gifts of silver and gold, together with weapons and fortified cities in Judah; but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram, since he was the firstborn. 
21:4: Now when Jehoram was established over his father’s kingdom, he strengthened himself and killed all his brothers, as well as others of Israel. 
21:5: Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and ruled for eight years in Jerusalem. 
21:6: He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done; for Ahab’s daughter was his wife, and he did evil before the Lord. 
21:7: Yet the Lord did not wish to destroy the house of David because of the covenant He had made with David, because He had promised to give a lamp to him and to his sons forever. 
21:8: In those days, the Edomites revolted against Judah and set a king over themselves. 
21:9: So Jehoram went out with his officers and all his cavalry. He rose by night and attacked the Edomites who had surrounded him and the captains of the chariots, and the people fled to their tents. 
21:10: Thus Edom remained in opposition to Judah’s authority to this day. At that time, Libnah revolted against the rule of Jehoram because he had forsaken the Lord God of his fathers. 
21:11: Moreover, he made high places in the cities of Judah and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit harlotry, and led Judah astray. 
21:12: And a letter came to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, “Thus says the Lord God of your father David, because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father, or in the ways of Asa the king of Judah, 
21:13: but walked in the way of the kings of Israel; because you caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot like the harlotry of the house of Ahab; and because you have killed your brothers, those of your father’s household who were better than yourself, 
21:14: behold, the Lord will strike your people with a great affliction—your sons, your wives, and all your possessions. 
21:15: And you will become day by day very sick with a disease of your belly, until your belly comes out because of the sickness.” 
21:16: Moreover, the Lord stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of both the foreigners and the neighbors of the Arabs near the Ethiopians. 
21:17: And they came up to Judah and invaded it; they carried away all the possessions from the king’s house as well as his sons and daughters, so he had no son left except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons. 
21:18: After all this the Lord struck him in the belly with an incurable disease. 
21:19: And in the course of time, at the end of two days, his belly came out with the disease, and he died in severe pain. His people made no funeral for him like the funeral for his fathers. 
21:20: He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for eight years. He departed without praise and he was buried in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings.

