12:1: When Rehoboam’s kingdom was established and strengthened, he forsook the commandments of the Lord, as did all Israel along with him. 
12:2: And in the fifth year of Rehoboam’s reign, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they sinned against the Lord. 
12:3: And he brought twelve hundred chariots, sixty thousand horsemen, and people without number who came with him from Egypt—the Lubim and the Sukkiim and the Ethiopians. 
12:4: And he took the fortified cities of Judah and came to Jerusalem. 
12:5: Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah, who were gathered together in Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, “Thus says the Lord: ‘You have forsaken Me, and I shall forsake you in the hand of Shishak.’ ” 
12:6: So the leaders of Israel and the king were ashamed and said, “The Lord is righteous.” 
12:7: Now when the Lord saw that they repented, the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, saying, “They repented. Therefore I will not destroy them, and I will grant them some deliverance. My wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem; 
12:8: nevertheless, they will be servants of the king, and they will know My service as well as the service of the kingdom of the land.” 
12:9: So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem and took the treasures of the house of the Lord and the treasures of the king’s house. He took everything. He even carried away the gold shields Solomon had made. 
12:10: Then Rehoboam made bronze shields in their place and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard who guarded the doorway of the king’s house. 
12:11: And whenever the king entered the house of the Lord, the guard would go and bring them out. Then they would take them back into the guardroom. 
12:12: When Rehoboam repented, the wrath of the Lord turned from him, and He did not destroy him completely. Things went well in Judah. 
12:13: Thus Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem and reigned. Now Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city the Lord had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put His name there. His mother’s name was Naamah, an Ammonite woman. 
12:14: And he did evil because he did not direct his heart to seek the Lord. 
12:15: The acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning genealogies? And Rehoboam waged war against Jeroboam all their days. 
12:16: So Rehoboam died and rested with his fathers, and was buried in the City of David. Then Abijah his son reigned in his place.

