17:1: Then Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel. 
17:2: He placed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set captains in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which Asa his father had taken. 
17:3: Now the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the former ways of his father David and did not seek idols, 
17:4: but sought the Lord God of his father and walked in His commandments, and not according to the deeds of Israel. 
17:5: Therefore the Lord guided the kingdom by his hand. And all Judah brought gifts to Jehoshaphat, and he had great wealth and honor. 
17:6: His heart took delight in the ways of the Lord. And moreover, he removed the high places and groves from the land of Judah. 
17:7: And in the third year of his reign, he sent his leaders and the sons of the mighty men, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah. 
17:8: And with them he sent Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah—the Levites. And with them were the priests Elishama and Jehoram. 
17:9: So they taught in Judah, and had the Book of the Law of the Lord with them. They went through the cities of Judah and taught the people. 
17:10: And the fear of the Lord fell on all the kingdoms of the lands around Judah, so they did not make war against Jehoshaphat. 
17:11: And some of the foreigners brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver as tribute, and the Arabians brought him flocks—seven thousand seven hundred rams. 
17:12: So Jehoshaphat became increasingly powerful, and he built fortresses and fortified cities in Judah. 
17:13: He had great works in Judah, and in Jerusalem men of war, mighty men of valor. 
17:14: These are their numbers by their fathers’ houses: of Judah, the captains of thousands, Adnah the captain, and with him three hundred thousand mighty men of valor; 
17:15: and with him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him were two hundred eighty thousand; 
17:16: and with him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to the Lord, and with him were two hundred thousand mighty men of valor. 
17:17: From Benjamin came Eliada, a mighty man of valor, and with him were two hundred thousand men armed with bow and shield. 
17:18: And with him was Jehozabad, who brought one hundred eighty thousand prepared for war. 
17:19: These served the king in addition to those the king put in the fortified cities throughout Judah.

