9:1: When these things were done, the leaders came to me, saying, “The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the people of the lands, with respect to the abominations of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Moserites, and the Amorites. 
9:2: For they have taken some of their daughters as wives for themselves and their sons, so that the holy seed is mixed with the peoples of those lands. Indeed, the hand of the leaders and rulers has been foremost in this trespass.” 
9:3: So when I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and plucked out some of the hair of my head and beard, and sat down astonished. 
9:4: Then everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel assembled to me, because of the transgression of those who had been carried away captive, and I sat astonished until the evening sacrifice. 
9:5: At the evening sacrifice I arose from my fasting; and having torn my garment, I trembled and bowed down on my knees and spread out my hands unto the Lord God, 
9:6: and I said: “O Lord, I am too ashamed and embarrassed to lift up my face to You, for our iniquities have multiplied above our heads, and our guilt has grown up to heaven. 
9:7: Since the days of our fathers to this day we have been very guilty, and for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plunder, and to humiliation, as it is this day. 
9:8: And now for a little while grace has been shown from the Lord our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a peg in His holy place, that our God may enlighten our eyes and give us a measure of revival in our bondage. 
9:9: For we are slaves. Yet our God did not forsake us in our bondage; but He extended mercy to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to revive us, to repair the house of our God, to rebuild its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and Jerusalem. 
9:10: And now, O our God, what shall we say in response to this? For we have forsaken Your commandments, 
9:11: which You gave us by Your servants the prophets saying, ‘The land which you are entering to inherit for yourself is a changing land in the removal of the people of the lands for their abominations with which they filled it from one end to the other with their impurity. 
9:12: Now therefore, do not give your daughters as wives for their sons, nor take their daughters to your sons; and never seek their peace or prosperity, that you may be strong and eat the good of the land, and leave it as an inheritance to your children forever.’ 
9:13: “And after all of this which has come against us for our evil deeds and our great trespasses, there is not anyone such as our God, for You have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such deliverance as this, 
9:14: even though we kept breaking Your commandments and intermarried with the people of the land. Do not be greatly upset with us to our utter destruction, to the point that there not be a remnant or survivor. 
9:15: O Lord the God of Israel, You are righteous, for we remain, being preserved to this day. Behold, we are in Your presence in our trespasses, though it is not possible to stand in Your presence because of this!”

