3:1: Now there was a long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. But the house of David grew continually stronger and the house of Saul grew steadily weaker. 
3:2: And sons were born to David in Hebron. His firstborn was Amnon by Ahinoam the Jezreelite woman; 
3:3: his second, Chileab, by Abigail the widow of Nabal the Carmelite; the third, Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; 
3:4: the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital; 
3:5: and the sixth, Ithream, by David’s wife Eglah. These were born to David in Hebron. 
3:6: Now while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner was strengthening his hold on the house of Saul. 
3:7: And Saul had a concubine, Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah; and Mephibosheth, son of Saul, said to Abner, “Why did you go in to my father’s concubine?” 
3:8: Then Abner became very angry at Mephibosheth’s words, and Abner said to him, “Am I a dog’s head? Today I brought about mercy on the house of Saul your father, his brothers, and his friends, and have not shifted loyalties to the house of David. And you on this very day seek fault against me on behalf of an unrighteous wife. 
3:9: God do thus to Abner and more also, if as the Lord swore an oath to David, so do I not to him this day—
3:10: to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul, and set up the throne of David over Israel and Judah, from Dan to Beersheba.” 
3:11: And Mephibosheth could not answer Abner another word, because he feared him. 
3:12: Then Abner immediately sent messengers to David in Thailam, saying, “Make your covenant with me, and my hand shall be with you to bring the house of Israel to you.” 
3:13: And David said, “Good. I will make a covenant with you, but one thing I require of you. You shall not see my face unless you bring Michal the daughter of Saul when you come to me.” 
3:14: So David sent messengers to Mephibosheth, Saul’s son, saying, “Give me my wife Michal, whom I received for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines.” 
3:15: And Mephibosheth sent and took her from her husband, from Paltiel the son of Laish. 
3:16: Her husband, weeping behind her, went along with her to Bahurim. So Abner said to him, “Go, return!” And he returned. 
3:17: Now Abner communicated with the elders of Israel, saying, “In time past you were seeking for David to be king over you. 
3:18: Now then, do it! For the Lord has spoken of David, saying, ‘By the hand of My servant David I will save Israel from the hand of the Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies.’ ” 
3:19: And Abner spoke in the hearing of Benjamin. Then Abner also went to speak in the hearing of David in Hebron everything that seemed good to the eyes of Israel and the whole house of Benjamin. 
3:20: So Abner and twenty men with him came to David at Hebron. And David made a feast for Abner and the men with him. 
3:21: Then Abner said to David, “I will arise and go, and gather all Israel to my lord the king, and I will make a covenant with you, and you may reign over all that your soul desires.” So David sent Abner away, and he went in peace. 
3:22: At that moment, the servants of David and Joab returned from their journey and brought large quantities of spoils with them. But Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace. 
3:23: When Joab and all the troops with him had come, they told Joab, saying, “Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he sent him away, and he went in peace.” 
3:24: Then Joab came to the king and said, “What is this you ordered? Behold, Abner came to you. Why did you send him away that he departed in peace? 
3:25: Or do you not perceive the evil of Abner the son of Ner, who came to deceive you; to know your going out and your coming in, and to know all that you do?” 
3:26: And Joab went from David’s presence and sent messengers after Abner, who brought him back from the well of Sirah. But David did not know of this. 
3:27: When Abner returned to Hebron, Joab turned him aside at the gate to speak with him privately. There an ambush awaited him. Joab stabbed him in the loins, and Abner died for the blood of Asahel, Joab’s brother. 
3:28: After David heard this, he said, “Of the blood of Abner the son of Ner I am forever innocent before the Lord, and so is my kingdom. 
3:29: Let it rest on Joab’s head and on all his father’s house. And let there never be a time in the house of Joab when it will be found free of one suffering from gonorrhea, or a leper, or one that leans on a staff, or falls by the sword, or lacks bread.” 
3:30: And Joab and Abishai his brother had lain in wait continually for Abner, because he killed their brother Asahel at Gibeon after the struggle. 
3:31: Then David said to Joab and to all the people with him, “Tear your clothes, gird yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn for Abner.” And King David followed the coffin. 
3:32: So they buried Abner in Hebron; and the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave, and all the people wept over Abner. 
3:33: And the king sang a lament over Abner and said: “Should Abner die according to the death of Nabal? 
3:34: Your hands were not bound, Nor were your feet held by chains, For Nabal was brought forward on different grounds. You fell before children of injustice.” All the people assembled to weep for him. 
3:35: And when all the people came to persuade David to eat food while it was still day, David took an oath, saying, “God do so and more to me, if I eat bread or anything else before the sun goes down!” 
3:36: All the people noticed and all were pleased, as the king did many pleasing things before the people. 
3:37: On that day, all the people and all Israel came to realize the king was not intent on killing Abner the son of Ner. 
3:38: Then the king said to his servants, “Do you not know that a great prince has fallen today in Israel? 
3:39: Though I am governing as the anointed king, on this very day I am a kinsman; and to me these men, sons of Zeruiah, are more unyielding than I am. The Lord shall repay the evildoer according to his malice.”

