16:1: When David was a little past the top of the mountain, there was Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth, who met him with a couple of saddled donkeys. And on them were two hundred loaves of bread, one hundred clusters of raisins, one hundred dates, and a skin of wine. 
16:2: And the king said to Ziba, “Why do you have these?” So Ziba said, “The donkeys are for the king’s household to ride on, the bread and dates for the young men to eat, and the wine for those who are faint in the desert from lack of drink.” 
16:3: Then the king said, “And where is your master’s son?” And Ziba said to the king, “He is staying in Jerusalem, for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will restore my father’s kingdom to me.’ ” 
16:4: So the king said to Ziba, “Here, all that belongs to Mephibosheth is yours.” And Ziba bowed and said, “May I find favor in your eyes, lord, my king!” 
16:5: Now when King David came to Bahurim, there was a man coming from there from the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei the son of Gera. As he came out, he was cursing continuously, 
16:6: casting stones at David and all the servants of David, and at all the people and all the mighty men on the right and on the left hand of the king. 
16:7: And Shimei cursed him and said, “Come out! Come out! You bloodthirsty man, you unlawful man! 
16:8: The Lord brought upon you all the blood of the house of Saul because you reign in his place. And the Lord now gives the kingdom into the hand of Absalom your son. So now you are caught in your own evil because you are a bloodthirsty man!” 
16:9: Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why is this dead dog cursing my lord the king? I will go over and take off his head!” 
16:10: But the king said, “What do I have to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah? Leave him alone and let him curse, because the Lord told him to curse David. Who then shall say, ‘Why have you done so?’ ” 
16:11: And David said to Abishai and all his servants, “See how my son who came from my own body seeks my life. Still more now may the son of Benjamin! Let him curse, because the Lord told him. 
16:12: May the Lord somehow look on my humiliation, and may He turn his cursing of me this day into good.” 
16:13: And as David and his men went along the road, Shimei went along the hillside opposite him and cursed as he went, throwing stones alongside him and kicking up dust. 
16:14: Now the king and all the people with him were becoming thirsty, so they refreshed themselves there. 
16:15: Absalom and all the men of Israel came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel was with him. 
16:16: And when Hushai the Archite, David’s companion, came to Absalom, Hushai said to Absalom, “Long live the king!” 
16:17: So Absalom said to Hushai, “Is this the mercy you show to your companion? Why did you not go with your companion?” 
16:18: And Hushai said to Absalom, “No, I am following the one that the Lord, these people, and all the men of Israel choose. I will be his, and I will remain with him. 
16:19: Should I not serve the next one? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? I will be in your presence as I served in your father’s presence.” 
16:20: Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Give counsel as to what we should do.” 
16:21: And Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Go in to your father’s concubines, whom he left to keep the house; and all Israel will hear that you dishonored your father. Then the hands of all who are with you will be strong.” 
16:22: So they pitched a tent for Absalom on top of the house, and Absalom went in to his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel. 
16:23: Now the counsel of Ahithophel which he gave in those days was treated as if he obtained it after inquiring the word of God. So was all the advice of Ahithophel, both to David and to Absalom.

