9:1: Now David said, “Is there anyone still left of the house of Saul, so that I may show him mercy for Jonathan’s sake?” 
9:2: And there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David. And the king said to him, “Are you Ziba?” And he said, “I am your servant!” 
9:3: Then the king said, “Is there not still someone left of the house of Saul, to whom I may show the mercy of God?” And Ziba said to the king, “There is still a son of Jonathan who is wounded in his feet.” 
9:4: So the king said to him, “Where is he?” And Ziba said to the king, “See, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, in Lo Debar.” 
9:5: Then King David sent and brought him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel from Lo Debar. 
9:6: When Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, had come to King David, he fell on his face and prostrated before him. Then David said, “Mephibosheth?” And he answered, “Here is your servant!” 
9:7: So David said to him, “Do not fear, for I will surely show you mercy for the sake of Jonathan your father. I will restore to you all the land of Saul your grandfather, and you shall always eat bread at my table.” 
9:8: Then Mephibosheth bowed and said, “Who am I, your servant, that you should look upon a dead dog like me?” 
9:9: And the king called to Ziba, Saul’s servant, and said to him, “I have given your master’s son everything that belonged to Saul and to all his house. 
9:10: You therefore, and your sons and your servants, shall work the land for him, and you shall bring in bread for your master’s son, and he will eat it. But Mephibosheth your master’s son shall always eat bread at my table.” Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 
9:11: Then Ziba said to the king, “Your servant will do everything my lord the king commanded his servant.” And Mephibosheth ate at David’s table like one of the king’s sons. 
9:12: Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Micha. And all who dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants of Mephibosheth. 
9:13: So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he always ate at the king’s table. And he was lame in both his feet.

