13:1: And it came to pass that Absalom the son of David had a very lovely sister, whose name was Tamar. Amnon the son of David loved her. 
13:2: Amnon was so lovesick over his sister Tamar that he became ill; for she was a virgin and also aloof. It was nearly impossible, in the eyes of Amnon, for him to gain her affection. 
13:3: But Amnon had a companion whose name was Jonadab the son of Shimeah, David’s brother. Now Jonadab was a very clever man. 
13:4: And he said to him, “What is the matter with you, son of the king? Why are you becoming weaker day after day? Will you not tell me?” Amnon said to him, “I am in love with Tamar, my brother Absalom’s sister.” 
13:5: So Jonadab said to him, “Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill. And when your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come and give me food, and prepare the food in my sight, so that I may see it and eat it from her hand.’ ” 
13:6: Then Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill. And when the king came to see him, Amnon said to the king, “Please let Tamar my sister come and make a couple of cakes for me in my sight, so that I may eat from her hand.” 
13:7: And David sent home to Tamar, saying, “Go to your brother Amnon’s house and prepare food for him.” 
13:8: So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house, and he was lying down. Then she took flour and kneaded it, made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes. 
13:9: And she took the pan and placed them before him, but he refused to eat. Then Amnon said, “Have everyone go out from me.” And they all went out from him. 
13:10: Then Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food into the inner chamber, so that I may eat from your hand.” And Tamar took the cakes she had made and brought them to Amnon her brother in the bedroom. 
13:11: Now when she had brought them for him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, “Come, lie with me, my sister.” 
13:12: And she answered him, “No, my brother, do not shame me, because it is not done this way in Israel. Do not do this foolishness! 
13:13: And how could I bear my disgrace? As for you, you would be like one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, please speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you.” 
13:14: However, Amnon would not heed her voice, and since he was stronger than she, he violated her and lay with her. 
13:15: Then Amnon hated her exceedingly, so much so that the intense hatred he bore against her was greater than the love with which he at first loved her. And Amnon said to her, “Get up and get out!” 
13:16: But Tamar said to him, “No, my brother! Because the hateful malice in your casting me out is far worse than the first thing you did to me.” But Amnon would not listen to her. 
13:17: Then he called the servant he had put in charge of his house and said, “Here! Take her away from me, and bolt the door behind her.” 
13:18: At the time, she wore a robe that reached to her wrists, for the daughters of the king who were virgins wore such apparel. And his servant put her out and bolted the door behind her. 
13:19: Then Tamar put ashes on her head. She tore the special robe she was wearing and then laid her hands on her head and went on her way, crying bitterly. 
13:20: And Absalom her brother said to her, “Has Amnon your brother been with you? Now then my sister, keep quiet. Because he is your brother, do not put it into your heart to speak about this.” So Tamar lived her life as a widow in her brother Absalom’s house. 
13:21: But when King David heard all these things, he was very angry. But he did not grieve the spirit of his son Amnon, because he loved him, for he was his firstborn. 
13:22: However, Absalom said nothing to his brother Amnon, neither good nor bad. For Absalom hated Amnon because he had violated his sister Tamar. 
13:23: It came about after two years passed by, to the day, they were shearing sheep for Absalom in Baal Hazor, near Ephraim. Absalom invited all the king’s sons. 
13:24: Then Absalom came to the king and said, “See, your servant has sheep shearers; let the king and his servants go with your servant.” 
13:25: But the king said to Absalom, “No, my son. Let us not all go at once and become burdensome to you.” Absalom persisted, but he would not go. Instead he blessed him. 
13:26: Then Absalom said, “Well then, please let my brother Amnon go with us.” And the king said to him, “Why should he go with you?” 
13:27: But Absalom persisted; so the king sent Amnon and all his sons with him. Absalom made a banquet like the banquet of the king. 
13:28: Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, “Take notice, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon and kill him,’ do not be afraid in any way, because I will give the command to you. Be courageous and valiant.” 
13:29: So the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons jumped up and each mounted his mule and fled. 
13:30: While they were yet on the way, news came to David, saying, “Absalom has killed all the king’s sons. Not one of them is left!” 
13:31: So the king arose and tore his garments and lay on the ground, and all his servants stood by with their clothes torn. 
13:32: Then Jonadab the son of Shimeah, David’s brother, spoke up and said, “Let not my lord the king suppose the servants killed all the young men, the king’s sons, for only Amnon is dead. For by the command of Absalom this has been determined from the day Amnon violated his sister Tamar. 
13:33: Now therefore, let my lord the king not take the thing to heart, thinking that all the king’s sons are dead. Only Amnon is dead.” 
13:34: Then Absalom escaped. And the servant keeping watch looked up and saw many people coming down the road from the mountainside behind him. The watchman came and told the king and said, “I saw men on the road of Oronen coming from the direction of the mountain.” 
13:35: And Jonadab said to the king, “Look, the king’s sons are coming. It is as your servant said.” 
13:36: As he finished speaking, the king’s sons arrived and wept aloud. And the king and all his servants wept very bitterly. 
13:37: But Absalom escaped and went to Talmai the son of Ammihud, king of Geshur, in the land of Machad. King David mourned for his son every day. 
13:38: So Absalom fled and escaped to Geshur. He stayed there three years. 
13:39: And the motivation of the king to seek out Absalom ceased, for he was consoled and at peace concerning the death of Amnon.

