7:1: It came to pass when the king sat in his house and the Lord had given him an inheritance on every side, free from all his enemies around him, 
7:2: the king said to Nathan the prophet, “See now, I now live in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in the middle of a tent.” 
7:3: Nathan said to the king, “Go and do everything that is in your heart, because the Lord is with you.” 
7:4: But that night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying, 
7:5: “Go and tell My servant David, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Do not build a house for Me to dwell in. 
7:6: To this day, I have not dwelt in a house since the time I brought the sons of Israel up from Egypt, and I walked among you in a temporary place of lodging and in a tent, 
7:7: wherever I went with all of Israel. In that time, did I speak a word to anyone from the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd My people Israel, saying, ‘Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?’ ” ’ 
7:8: “So now tell My servant David, ‘Thus says the Lord Almighty, “I took you from the sheepfold to be ruler over My people, over Israel. 
7:9: And I have been with you in all things, wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you, and have made your name held in high honor, according to the great ones on the earth. 
7:10: And I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them so that they may dwell in a place of their own and be anxious no more. No more shall the sons of wickedness humiliate them, as they have done since the beginning, 
7:11: since the days I appointed judges over My people Israel, and I shall give you rest from all your enemies. Await the Lord to tell you when to build Him a house. 
7:12: And it shall come about, when your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will raise up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will prepare his kingdom. 
7:13: He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish his throne forever. 
7:14: I will be a father to him, and he shall be to Me a son. And if he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the blows of the sons of men. 
7:15: But I will not take My mercy from him, as I took it from those whom I withdrew from My presence. 
7:16: And his house will be made sure, and his kingdom shall be forever.” ’ ” 
7:17: Nathan told David each of these words and all of this vision. 
7:18: Then King David went in and sat before the Lord and said, “O Lord, my Lord, who am I and what is my house, that You have loved me even until now? 
7:19: O Lord, my Lord, this is very insignificant before You, yet You spoke on behalf of the house of Your servant, even this for the distant future. O Lord, my Lord, is this the law of man? 
7:20: What more can David say to You? O Lord, my Lord, You know Your servant. 
7:21: You do according to Your word, and You do according to Your heart all this greatness, to make it known to Your servant, 
7:22: to magnify You. O Lord, my Lord, according to all we hear with our ears, there is no one like You, and there is no God but you. 
7:23: What other nation on the earth is as Your people Israel? As God guided them in order to redeem them, to establish them as a people, to make for Yourself a name, to do greatness, and to make manifest to those You cast out from the midst of Your people, whom you redeemed out of the nation of Egypt and their tents. 
7:24: For You prepared for Yourself Your people Israel, to be a people forever. You, O Lord, have become our God. 
7:25: “And now, O Lord, my Lord, the word which You now speak concerning Your servant and concerning his house, establish it forever, O Lord Almighty, God of Israel, just as You said. 
7:26: So let Your name be magnified forever. 
7:27: O Lord Almighty, You have disclosed this to the ears of Your servant, saying, ‘I will build you a house.’ Therefore Your servant has found it in his heart to pray this prayer to You. 
7:28: And now, O Lord, my Lord, You are God, and Your words shall be true, and You speak these good things on behalf of Your servant. 
7:29: Now may You rule and bless the house of Your servant, that it may continue before You forever. For You are the Lord my Lord; You spoke, and with Your blessing, let the house of Your servant be blessed forever.”

