19:1: The king was deeply troubled, and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And thus he said as went, “My son Absalom, my son. My son Absalom—why your death instead of mine; I instead of you! Absalom my son, my son!” 
19:2: Joab was told, “Behold, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom.” 
19:3: So the deliverance of that day was turned into mourning for all the people. For that day the people heard it said, “The king is grieving for his son.” 
19:4: And the people crept back into the city that day like people ashamed for being cowardly in the midst of battle. 
19:5: The king covered his face and cried out with a loud voice, “My son Absalom! Absalom, my son!” 
19:6: And Joab came into the house before the king, and said, “Today you have disgraced all your servants who delivered you today, the lives of your sons and daughters, the lives of your wives and the lives of your concubines, 
19:7: because you love those who hate you and hate those who love you. For today you declared that you regard neither rulers nor servants. For I perceive that if Absalom lived and all of us had died today, then it would be well-pleasing to you. 
19:8: Now therefore, arise, go out and speak to the hearts of your servants. For I swear by the Lord, if you do not go out today, not one will stay with you tonight. And that will be worse for you than all the evil that has befallen you from your youth until now.” 
19:9: Then the king arose and sat in the gate. And they told all the people saying, “There is the king, sitting in the gate.” So all the people came before the king, for Israel fled every man to his tent. 
19:10: Now all the people were in a dispute throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “The king saved us from all our enemies, he delivered us from the hand of the Philistines, and now he fled from the land and his kingdom because of Absalom. 
19:11: But Absalom, whom we anointed over us, died in battle. Now therefore, why do you say nothing about bringing back the king?” 
19:12: So King David sent to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, saying, “Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house, since the words of all Israel have come to the king? 
19:13: You are my brethren, you are my bone and my flesh. Why then are you the last to bring back the king into his house?’ 
19:14: And say to Amasa, ‘Are you not my bone and my flesh? God do so to me and more also, if you are not permanent commander of the army instead of Joab.’ ” 
19:15: The king swayed the hearts of all the men of Judah, as that of one man. And word was sent to the king, saying, “Return, you and all your servants!” 
19:16: Then the king returned and came as far as the River Jordan. And the men of Judah came to Gilgal on their way to meet the king, to escort him across the River Jordan. 
19:17: And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite who was from Bahurim, hastened and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. 
19:18: There were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him, and they went over the Jordan before the king. 
19:19: And they went through the ford, carrying the king’s household, and the service of escorting the king was completed, and they did what he thought good. Now Shimei the son of Gera fell on his face before the king as he was crossing the River Jordan. 
19:20: And he said to the king, “Do not let my lord impute iniquity to me, or remember the wrong your servant did on the day when my lord the king left Jerusalem, so that the king should take it to heart. 
19:21: For I, your servant, know that I sinned. Therefore here I am, the first to come today of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my lord the king.” 
19:22: But Abishai the son of Zeruiah spoke up and said, “Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the Lord’s anointed?” 
19:23: And David said, “What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should be adversaries to me today? Shall any man be put to death today in Israel? For I do not know today whether I am king over Israel.” 
19:24: And the king said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” For the king swore to him. 
19:25: Now Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan the son of Saul came down to meet the king. And he had not cared for his feet, nor trimmed his nails or his mustache, nor washed his clothes from the day the king departed until the day he returned in peace. 
19:26: So when he came to Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him, “Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?” 
19:27: And he answered, “My lord the king, my servant deceived me. For your servant said to him, ‘I will saddle a donkey for myself so I may ride on it and go to the king, because your servant is lame.’ 
19:28: And he deceived your servant to my lord the king, but my lord the king is like an angel of God. Therefore do what is good in your eyes. 
19:29: For all my father’s house were but dead men before my lord the king. Yet you set your servant among those who eat at your own table. Therefore what right do I still have to cry out any more to the king?” 
19:30: So the king said to him, “Why are you still speaking of your affairs? I said, ‘You and Ziba divide the land.’ ” 
19:31: Then Mephibosheth said to the king, “No, let him take it all, since my lord the king has come back in peace to his house.” 
19:32: And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and went across the River Jordan with the king to escort him across the Jordan. 
19:33: Now Barzillai was a very aged man, eighty years old, and had provided the king with supplies while he stayed at Mahanaim, for he was a very great man. 
19:34: And the king said to Barzillai, “Come across with me, and I will provide for your old age in Jerusalem.” 
19:35: But Barzillai said to the king, “How long have I to live, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem? 
19:36: I am eighty years old today. Can I discern between the good and bad? Can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear any longer the voice of singing men and singing women? Why then should your servant be a further burden to my lord the king? 
19:37: Your servant will go a little way across the Jordan with the king. Why should the king repay me with such a reward? 
19:38: Let me your servant remain and die in my own city near the grave of my father and mother. But here is your servant Chimham; he will cross over with my lord the king, and do for him what seems good to you.” 
19:39: And the king answered, “Chimham shall cross over with me, and I will do for him what seems good to you. Now I will do for you whatever you ask of me.” 
19:40: Then all the people went over the Jordan, and the king crossed. And the king kissed Barzillai and blessed him, and he returned to his place. 
19:41: Now the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him. And all the people of Judah escorted the king, and half the people of Israel. 
19:42: And behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said to him, “Why did our brethren, the men of Judah, steal you away and bring the king, his household, and all David’s men with him across the Jordan?” 
19:43: So all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, “Because the king is a close relative of ours. Why then are you angry over this matter? Have we ever eaten at the king’s expense? Or has he given us any gift?” 
19:44: And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, “We have ten shares in the king; therefore we are first over you, and we also have a greater right to David than you. Why then do you despise us? Were we not the first to advise bringing back our king?” The words of the men of Judah were sharper than the words of the men of Israel.

