8:1: After this, David attacked the Philistines and put them to flight. And David took the border country from the hand of the Philistines. 
8:2: Then David defeated Moab, and after forcing them down to the ground, he measured them off with lines. With two lines he measured off those to be put to death, and with two lines those to be kept alive. So the Moabites became David’s servants and brought tribute. 
8:3: David also defeated Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to extend his power to the River Euphrates. 
8:4: David took from him one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. Also David hamstrung all the chariot horses, except that he spared enough of them for one hundred chariots. 
8:5: When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand men in Syria. 
8:6: Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David’s servants and brought tribute. The Lord saved David wherever he went. 
8:7: And David took the shields of gold that had belonged to the servants of Hadadezer, king of Zobah, and brought them to Jerusalem. Sousakim, king of Egypt, took them when he went up to Jerusalem in the days of Rehoboam, the son of Solomon. 
8:8: Also from the Mazbak, from the choice cities of Hadadezer, King David took a large amount of bronze with which Solomon made the bronze Sea and the pillars and the basins and all the implements. 
8:9: When Toi, king of Hamath, heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer, 
8:10: Toi sent his son Joram to King David, to greet him in peace and bless him because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him. For he had been at war with Hadadezer. And in his hands he brought with him articles of silver, articles of gold, and articles of bronze. 
8:11: King David consecrated these to the Lord along with the silver and gold that he had consecrated from all the cities he had subdued—
8:12: from Idumea, from Moab, from the sons of Ammon, from the Philistines, from Amalek, and from the spoil of Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah. 
8:13: And David made himself a name when he returned from killing eighteen thousand Idumeans in Gaimele. 
8:14: He also put garrisons in Idumea, throughout all Idumea, and all the Idumeans became the king’s servants. And the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 
8:15: So David reigned over Israel, and David administered judgment and justice to all his people. 
8:16: Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
8:17: Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests; Asa was the scribe; 
8:18: Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was an advisor, as were the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief ministers.

