23:1: Now these are the last words of David. “David, the faithful one, the son of Jesse; The faithful man whom the Lord raised up, The anointed of the God of Jacob, The sweet psalmist of Israel: 
23:2: “The Spirit of the Lord spoke by me, And His word was on my tongue. 
23:3: The God of Israel says, A guardian of Israel spoke a parable, saying, ‘Among men, how will you strengthen the fear of God? 
23:4: By God, the sun may arise in the light of early morning; The early morning does not pass by without light; So after rain, new growth shows forth out of the earth.’ 
23:5: “For my house is not so with the Mighty One; For He prepared an everlasting covenant with me, Keeping it prepared for every time. For my entire salvation and my every desire is That the lawless may not in any way flourish! 
23:6: All of them are as thorns thrusting outward, For they cannot be taken by the hand. 
23:7: And a man will not labor among them, Unless armed with iron and the shaft of a spear, And to their dishonor, they shall be burned with fire.” 
23:8: The names of David’s mighty men were, first, Jebosheth the Canaanite, chief among the three. The second was called Adino the Eznite. He drew his sword against eight hundred men at one time and killed them. 
23:9: And after him was Eleazar his cousin, the son of Zousitos, one of the three mighty men. He was with David in Zerran when they defied the Philistines who were gathered there for battle, and the men of Israel had retreated. 
23:10: He arose and attacked the Philistines until his hand was weary and his hand stuck to the sword. The Lord brought about a great deliverance that day, and the people stayed behind him only to plunder. 
23:11: And after him was Shammah the son of Asa the Arouchaite. The Philistines had gathered to Theria, where there was a part of the field full of lentils. Then the people fled from the Philistines. 
23:12: But he stationed himself in the middle of the field, defended it, and killed the Philistines. And the Lord brought about a great deliverance. 
23:13: Then three of the thirty chief men went down at harvest time and came to David in Kason at the cave of Adullam. And the troop of Philistines encamped in the Valley of Rephaim. 
23:14: At that time David was in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem. 
23:15: And David said with longing, “Who will give me a drink of the water from the well in Bethlehem by the gate?” 
23:16: So the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines, drew water from the well of Bethlehem by the gate, and took it and brought it to David. Nevertheless he would not drink it, but poured it out to the Lord. 
23:17: And he said, “Far be it from me, Lord, to do this! Is this not the blood of the men who went in jeopardy of their lives so that I should drink?” Therefore he would not drink it. These are the things the three mighty men did. 
23:18: Now Abishai the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of another three. He lifted his spear against three hundred men and won a name among these three. 
23:19: Of the three he was the most honored. Therefore he became their captain. However, he did not attain to the first three. 
23:20: Benaiah was the son of Jehoiada, a man from Kabzeel, abundant in deeds. He had killed two lion-like heroes of Moab. He had also gone down and killed a lion in the midst of a pit on a snowy day. 
23:21: And he killed an Egyptian man, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand like the wood of a ladder, so he went down to him with a staff, snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand, and killed him with his own spear. 
23:22: These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and he won a name among three mighty men. 
23:23: He was the most honored of the three, but he did not attain to the first three. And David appointed him as his reporter. 
23:24: And the names of King David’s mighty men were Asahel the brother of Joab, one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo, David’s uncle, of Bethlehem; 
23:25: Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, 
23:26: Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, 
23:27: Abiezer the Anathothite of the sons of Asothitos, 
23:28: Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite, 
23:29: Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai from Gibeah, the son of Benjamin, 
23:30: Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai from the brooks of Gaash, 
23:31: Abiel the son of the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, 
23:32: Eliahba the Shaalbonite of the sons of Jashen, Jonathan, 
23:33: Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite, 
23:34: Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite, 
23:35: Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, 
23:36: Igal the son of Nathan from the mighty men, the Gadite, 
23:37: Elie the Ammonite, Gelorai the Beerothite, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
23:38: Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
23:39: and Uriah the Hittite. These were thirty-seven in all.

