6:1: Again David gathered all the young men of Israel, about seventy thousand. 
6:2: And David arose and went, he and all the people with him, even with the rulers of Judah, on an expedition to bring back from there the ark of God, on which they called upon the Name of the Lord of Hosts who dwells between the cherubim. 
6:3: So they set the ark of God on a new wagon and brought it from the house of Abinadab on the hill. And Uzzah and his brothers, the sons of Abinadab, drove the wagon 
6:4: with the ark, and his brothers went before the ark. 
6:5: Then David and all the sons of Israel with strength played music before the Lord on welltuned instruments, with songs, harps, lyres, flutes, and with drums and cymbals. 
6:6: And when they came to Nachon’s threshing-floor, Uzzah placed his hand on the ark of God to hold it steady when the oxen shook it out of its place. 
6:7: The Lord was angered against Uzzah, and there God struck him. And before God, he died there next to the ark of the Lord. 
6:8: And David became angry because the Lord inflicted a fatal wound against Uzzah, and he called that place Wound of Uzzah to this day. 
6:9: And on that day, fearing the Lord, David said, “In what possible way can the ark of the Lord come with me?” 
6:10: So David would not bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord to the City of David. Instead David directed it into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. 
6:11: For three months, the ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. And the Lord blessed all the house of Obed-Edom and everything he had. 
6:12: Now it was reported to King David, saying, “The Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom and all his possessions because of the ark of God.” So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the City of David with gladness. 
6:13: And there were with those bearing the ark of the Lord seven groups of singers, and a calf and a lamb for sacrifice. 
6:14: David played on well-tuned instruments before the Lord, and David put on a special garment. 
6:15: So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. 
6:16: Now as the ark came into the City of David, Michal, Saul’s daughter, looked through a window and saw King David dancing and playing instruments before the Lord, and she despised him in her heart. 
6:17: They brought the ark of the Lord and set it in its place in the midst of the tabernacle David built for it. Then David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. 
6:18: And when David finished offering burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts. 
6:19: Then he distributed among all the people, among the whole army of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and to the men and women, to everyone, a loaf of bread, a piece of meat, and a fried cake. So all the people departed, everyone to his house. 
6:20: Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David. She blessed him and said, “How glorious was the king of Israel today, making himself a shameful exhibition before the eyes of his handmaidens as he uncovered himself, revealing himself as does a base dancer.” 
6:21: David said to Michal, “I will dance in the presence of the Lord. Blessed is the Lord who chose me over your father and before all his house, to put me in charge to govern His people, Israel. And I will play music and I will dance before the Lord. 
6:22: And I will again uncover myself in this manner and will thus remain vile in your sight; but with the handmaidens of which you spoke, I will be praised.” 
6:23: And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.

