4:1: When Mephibosheth, the son of Saul, heard that Abner had died while in Hebron, the strength of his hands grew weaker, and all the men of Israel were low in spirits. 
4:2: Now Saul’s son, Mephibosheth, had two men who were captains over the troops. The name of one was Baanah and the name of the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, of the sons of Benjamin; for Beeroth was considered as one of the sons of Benjamin. 
4:3: And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim and sojourn there until this day. 
4:4: (Jonathan, a son of Saul, had a five-year-old son who was lame in his feet. When word came from Jezreel about Saul and his son Jonathan, his nurse picked up his son and fled, and as she ran to leave, she fell and his foot became lame. Mephibosheth was his name.) 
4:5: And Rechab and Baanah, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, set out, and by the time the hottest part of the day arrived, they were as far as the house of Mephibosheth, and he was napping on the bed at midday. 
4:6: And behold, the doorkeeper of the house winnowed the wheat and he too napped. Thus the presence of the brothers Rechab and Baanah went unnoticed. 
4:7: While Mephibosheth was asleep on his bed in his bedroom, they entered and struck him dead and beheaded him. They then took his head and journeyed the whole night on the road going west. 
4:8: They brought the head of Mephibosheth to David at Hebron. They said to the king, “Behold, the head of Mephibosheth, the son of Saul your enemy, who sought your life. Today, the Lord executed for my lord the king vengeance upon his enemies, even on Saul your enemy and on his seed.” 
4:9: But David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, saying to them, “As the Lord lives who redeemed my life from all adversity, 
4:10: when someone told me, ‘Look, Saul is dead,’ believing he brought me good news, I arrested him—the one who thought I would give him a reward, and he was executed in Ziklag. 
4:11: And now wicked men kill a righteous person in his house on his bed. Now by reason of your direct involvement, I will charge you with his murder. I will have you utterly removed from the land.” 
4:12: And David gave a command to his servants, and they killed them. They cut off their hands and feet, and they hung them by the pool in Hebron. But the head of Mephibosheth was buried in the tomb of Abner, son of Ner.

