10:1: It happened after this that the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his place. 
10:2: Then David said, “I will show mercy to Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father showed mercy to me.” So David sent by the hand of his servants to comfort him concerning his father. And David’s servants came into the land of the children of Ammon. 
10:3: And the princes of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun their lord, “Do you think David really honors your father because he sent comforters to you? Did David not rather send his servants to you to search the city, to spy it out, and to survey it?” 
10:4: Therefore Hanun took David’s servants, shaved off their beards, cut off their garments at the middle of their haunches, and sent them away. 
10:5: When they told David about the men, of how they were greatly dishonored, he sent to meet them. And the king said, “Wait at Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return.” 
10:6: The people of Ammon saw that the people of David were put to shame, so the people of Ammon sent and hired from the Syrians of Beth Rehob twenty thousand foot soldiers; and from the king of Maacah one thousand men, and from Ish-Tob twelve thousand men. 
10:7: Now when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men. 
10:8: Then the sons of Ammon came out and put themselves in battle array at the entrance of the gate. And the Syrians of Zoba, Beth Rehob, Ish-Tob, and Maacah were by themselves in the field. 
10:9: When Joab saw that the battle line was against him before and behind, he chose some of Israel’s young men and put them in battle array against the Syrians. 
10:10: And he put the rest of the people under the command of Abishai his brother, and they were placed in battle array against the sons of Ammon. 
10:11: Then he said, “If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall deliver me, but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for you, then we will come and deliver you. 
10:12: Be of good courage and let us be strong for our people and for the cities of our God; for the Lord will do what is good in His sight.” 
10:13: So Joab and the people with him went into battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him. 
10:14: When the sons of Ammon saw that the Syrians fled, they also fled before Abishai and entered the city. And Joab returned from the sons of Ammon and went to Jerusalem. 
10:15: When the Syrians saw that they were defeated by Israel, they gathered together. 
10:16: Then Hadadezer sent and gathered the Syrians beyond the river Chalamak, and they came to Helam. And Shobach the commander of Hadadezer’s army went before them. 
10:17: When it was reported to David, he gathered all Israel, crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. Here the Syrians set themselves in battle array against David and fought with him. 
10:18: And Syria fled from before Israel, and David killed seven hundred charioteers and forty thousand horsemen of the Syrians. David also struck Shobach, the commander of their army, who died there. 
10:19: And when all the kings who were servants to Hadadezer saw they were defeated by Israel, they changed allegiance and served Israel. Syria was afraid to help rescue the people of Ammon.

