15:1: After this Absalom provided himself with chariots and horses and fifty men to run before him. 
15:2: Now Absalom would rise early and stand beside the entrance to the gate. So it was that whenever anyone who had a lawsuit came to the king for a decision, Absalom would call to him and say, “What city are you from?” And the man would say, “Your servant is from such and such a tribe of Israel.” 
15:3: Then Absalom would say to him, “Look, your case is good and right; but there is no one to grant you a hearing before the king.” 
15:4: And Absalom said, “Who will appoint me as judge in the land, so everyone who has any dispute or cause will come to me? I will give him justice.” 
15:5: And so it was, when anyone came near to him to bow down in respect, he would put out his hand and take him and kiss him. 
15:6: Absalom acted in this manner toward all Israelites who came to the king for judgment. Absalom won over the hearts of the men of Israel. 
15:7: Four years later Absalom said to his father, “I am going to Hebron to fulfill the vow I made to the Lord. 
15:8: For your servant took a vow while I dwelt at Geshur in Syria, saying, ‘If the Lord brings me back to Jerusalem, then I will serve the Lord.’ ” 
15:9: And the king said to him, “Go in peace.” So he arose and went to Hebron. 
15:10: Then Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you shall say, ‘Absalom reigns as king in Hebron!’ ” 
15:11: And Absalom invited two hundred men who went with him from Jerusalem. They went along innocently and knew nothing in particular. 
15:12: Then Absalom sent for and called Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counselor, from his city, from Giloh, where he was offering sacrifices. And the conspiracy grew strong, for there were many people who went with Absalom. 
15:13: Now a messenger came to David, saying, “The hearts of the men of Israel are following Absalom.” 
15:14: So David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, “Arise, and let us flee. There is no refuge for us before Absalom. Make haste to depart, so he does not drive us out and bring disaster upon us and strike the city with the edge of the sword.” 
15:15: And the king’s servants said to the king, “We are your servants, ready to do whatever our lord the king commands.” 
15:16: Then the king went out on foot with all his household. But the king left ten women of his concubines to guard the house. 
15:17: And the king went out with all his people on foot, and lodged in a distant house. 
15:18: Then all his servants passed before him, even the Cherethites and all the Pelethites, and they stayed among the olive trees in the desert. All the people walked near him with his court, all the strong men, and all the six hundred men of the army present by his side. And all the Cherethites and all the Pelethites and all the Gathites totaled six hundred men who followed him from Gath on foot, who went ahead of the king. 
15:19: Then the king said to Ittai the Gathite, “Why do you also travel with us? Return and remain with the king, for you are a foreigner and an exile from your own place. 
15:20: In fact, you came only yesterday. Should I move you with us and cause you to flee from your place? You left yesterday. Shall I make you sojourn with us today as well? For indeed I will go wherever I wish to go. So return, and take your brethren back with you. May the Lord treat you with mercy and truth.” 
15:21: And Ittai answered the king and said, “As the Lord lives, and as my lord the king lives, wherever my lord the king goes, to death or to life, your servant will be there as well.” 
15:22: So the king said to Ittai, “Go and cross over with me.” Then Ittai the Gathite and all his men and all the crowd who were with him crossed over. 
15:23: And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people crossed over the Brook Kidron. The king himself crossed over the Brook Kidron, and all the people crossed over toward the way of the desert. 
15:24: And there was Zadok and all the Levites with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord from Bethor. And they set down the ark of God, and Abiathar went up until all the people finished crossing over from the city. 
15:25: Then the king said to Zadok, “Carry the ark of God back into the city. If I find favor in the eyes of the Lord, He will bring me back and show me both it and its majesty. 
15:26: But if He says thus, ‘I have no delight in you,’ behold, here I am, let Him do to me as seems good to Him.” 
15:27: The king also said to Zadok the priest, “Look, return to the city in peace along with your two sons, Ahimaaz your son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 
15:28: Take notice, I will continue to wait in Araboth, in the plains of the desert, until word comes from you to let me know.” 
15:29: Therefore Zadok and Abiathar carried the ark back to Jerusalem, and they remained there. 
15:30: So David went up by the ascent of the Mount of Olives and wept as he went up. His head was covered and he went up barefoot. And of the people with him, each of the men covered his head and went up, weeping as they went. 
15:31: Then someone told David, saying, “Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom.” And David said, “Lord, my God, defeat the counsel of Ahithophel!” 
15:32: Now it happened, when David came to the top of the mountain, where he worshipped God, Hushai the Archite, David’s companion, was coming to meet him with his robe torn and dust on his head. 
15:33: David said to him, “If you go on with me, then you will become a burden to me. 
15:34: But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, ‘Your brothers crossed over, and the king your father crossed over behind me. Now I am your servant, O king; let me live. As I was previously the servant of your father, so I will now be your servant. So reject the counsel of Ahithophel for me.’ 
15:35: Indeed, Zadok and Abiather the priests will be there, so whatever you hear from the king’s house, tell the priests. 
15:36: Indeed Zadok and Abiathar have their two sons there with them, Ahimaaz, Zadok’s son, and Jonathan, Abiathar’s son. By them you shall send me everything you hear.” 
15:37: So Hushai, David’s companion, went into the city. And Absalom entered Jerusalem.

