15:1: In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam the son of Rehoboam became king over Judah. 
15:2: He reigned for six years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Maachah the daughter of Abishalom. 
15:3: Now he walked in all the sins his father did before him, and his heart was not perfect toward the Lord his God, as was the heart of his father David. 
15:4: Nevertheless for David’s sake, the Lord gave him a remnant, so as to establish his sons after him and to establish Jerusalem. 
15:5: For David did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and did not turn aside from anything He commanded him all the days of his life. 
15:6: Now the rest of the words of Abijam and all he did, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? There was war between Abijam and Jeroboam. 
15:7: Then Abijam rested with his fathers in the twenty-fourth year of Jeroboam, and he was buried in the City of David. Then Asa his son reigned in his place. 
15:8: In the twenty-fourth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa became king over Judah. 
15:9: He reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Ana, the daughter of Abishalom. 
15:10: Asa did what was right before the Lord, as did his father David. 
15:11: He removed the cultic rituals from the land, and eliminated all the practices his fathers had done. 
15:12: He also removed Ana, his mother, from being a leader, because she conducted assemblies in her grove. Asa cut down her sacred grove and burned it by the Brook Kidron. 
15:13: But he did not remove the high places. Nevertheless, Asa’s heart was perfect with the Lord all his days. 
15:14: He brought into the house of the Lord the pillars his father had dedicated, and his own pillars of silver and gold and his vessels. 
15:15: Now there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
15:16: Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah and built Ramah, so Asa king of Judah could not go out or come in. 
15:17: Then Asa took all the silver and gold found in the treasuries of the king’s house and delivered them into the hands of his servants. Asa then sent them to the son of Hadad the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus, saying, 
15:18: “Let there be a covenant between you and me, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you a present of silver and gold. Come and break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel, that he might withdraw from me.” 
15:19: So the son of Hadad heeded King Asa. He sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel. He attacked Ijon, Dan, Abel Beth Maachah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali. 
15:20: Now when Baasha heard it, he stopped building Ramah and returned to Tirzah. 
15:21: Then King Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah to Ainakim. They took away the stones and timber of Ramah which Baasha used for building; and with them King Asa built upon every hill of Benjamin, and also a watchtower. 
15:22: The rest of the words of Asa, all his might, and everything he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age, his feet were diseased. 
15:23: Asa then rested with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the City of David his father. Then Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place. 
15:24: Now Nadab the son of Jeroboam became king over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel for two years. 
15:25: He did evil before the Lord, and walked in the way of his father and in the sins by which he caused Israel to sin. 
15:26: Then Baasha the son of Ahijah conspired against the house of Belaan, and killed him at Gibbethon, in the land of the foreigners, while Nadab and all Israel laid siege to Gibbethon. 
15:27: Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa the son of Abijam king of Judah, and reigned in his place. 
15:28: It came to pass that when he reigned, he struck every house of Jeroboam and left no one of Jeroboam’s house breathing, until he utterly destroyed him, according to the word of the Lord spoken by His servant Ahijah the Shilonite, 
15:29: for the sins of Jeroboam that Israel sinned, and in the anger of him who provoked to anger the Lord God of Israel. 
15:30: Now the rest of the words of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
15:31: In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah became king over Israel in Tirzah, and reigned twenty-four years. 
15:32: Now he did evil before the Lord and walked in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in the sins he caused Israel to commit.

