5:1: In this manner the governors provided everything King Solomon requested for the king’s table, each man in his month. They did not change a thing; even the barley and the grain stalks for the horses and the chariots they brought to the place where the king was, each man according to his appointment. 
5:2: What was needed for Solomon in one day were thirty measures of the finest wheat flour, sixty measures of beaten ground meal, 
5:3: ten chosen calves, twenty pastured oxen, a hundred sheep, and besides this, deer and gazelles, and choice fatted hens, 
5:4: because there was a governor all along the opposite shore of the river. So he had peace in all his territories round about. 
5:5: The Lord gave discernment to Solomon, exceedingly great wisdom and a heart as broad as the sand beside the sea. 
5:6: Thus Solomon increased beyond the understanding of all the ancient men, even beyond all the learned men of Egypt; 
5:7: and he was made wise beyond every man. He was even made wise beyond Ethan, the Ezrahite, and Herman and Chalcol and Darda, the sons of Mahol. 
5:8: Solomon spoke three thousand parables, and there were five thousand of his songs. 
5:9: He spoke about wood from the cedars in Lebanon, and the hyssop that grows out through the wall; and he spoke about cattle, birds, reptiles, and fish. 
5:10: So all the people came to hear Solomon’s wisdom, and he received gifts from all the kings of the earth who heard his wisdom. 
5:11: Solomon took the daughter of Pharaoh for his wife, and he brought her into the City of David until he completed the house of the Lord, and his own house and the walls of Jerusalem. 
5:12: Then Pharaoh the king of Egypt went up and conquered Gezer and burned it, along with the Canaanites who were living in Mergab; and Pharaoh gave letters to his daughter, the wife of Solomon, and Solomon rebuilt Gezer. 
5:13: Now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to anoint Solomon in place of his father David, because Hiram had always loved David. 
5:14: Then Solomon sent to Hiram, saying, 
5:15: “You know how my father David could not build a house for the name of the Lord his God because of the wars that were fought against him on every side, until the Lord put his foes under the soles of his feet. 
5:16: But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary nor evil occurrence. 
5:17: Behold, I propose to build a house for the name of the Lord my God, as the Lord spoke to my father David, saying, ‘Your son, whom I will set on your throne in your place, he shall build the house for My name.’ 
5:18: Now therefore, command them to cut down cedars for me from Lebanon. My servants will be with your servants, and I will pay you wages for your servants, according to whatever you say; because you know we have no one who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians.” 
5:19: So when Hiram heard Solomon’s words, he rejoiced greatly and said, “Blessed be the Lord today, who gave David a wise son over this great people.” 
5:20: Then he sent to Solomon, saying, “I have heard the message you sent me, and I will do everything you desire concerning the cedar and pine logs. 
5:21: My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon to the sea; I will float them in rafts by sea to the place you indicate to me, and will have them broken apart there; then you can take them away. You shall fulfill my desire by giving food for my household.” 
5:22: Then Hiram gave Solomon cedar logs and everything he wished. 
5:23: Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat as food for his household, and twenty baths of pure olive oil. Solomon gave this to Hiram every year. 
5:24: So the Lord gave Solomon wisdom, as He had promised him, and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon; and the two of them made a treaty together. 
5:25: Then the king raised up a labor force out of all Israel, and the labor force was thirty thousand men. 
5:26: He sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month in shifts. They were in Lebanon for one month and at home for two months; and Adoniram was in charge of the labor force. 
5:27: Solomon had seventy thousand who carried burdens, and eighty thousand who quarried stone in the mountain, 
5:28: with an additional three thousand six hundred from the chiefs of Solomon’s deputies, who supervised the people who labored in the work. 
5:29: They prepared the stones and the trees in three years.

