1:1: Now King David was old, advanced in years; and they put covers on him, but he could not get warm. 
1:2: Therefore his servants said to him, “Let them seek a young woman, a virgin for our lord the king, and she will be beside the king, warming him; she will lie with him, so our lord the king will be warm.” 
1:3: So they sought for a beautiful young woman throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king. 
1:4: The young woman was very beautiful; and she warmed the king, and ministered to him; but the king did not know her. 
1:5: Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, “I will be king.” He prepared chariots and horsemen for himself and fifty men to run before him. 
1:6: His father never at any time rebuked him, saying, “Why did you do so?” He was also very handsome, and was born after Absalom. 
1:7: Then he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest, and they came to the aid of Adonijah. 
1:8: But Zadok the priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David did not follow Adonijah. 
1:9: Adonijah sacrificed sheep, calves, and lambs by the stone of the Serpent, by the spring called Rogel, and he invited all his brothers, the king’s sons, and all the men of Judah, servants of the king. 
1:10: But he did not invite Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty men, or Solomon his brother. 
1:11: Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, “Have you not heard, Adonijah the son of Haggith made himself king, and David our lord is unaware of this? 
1:12: Come, let me now give you advice, that you may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon. 
1:13: Go immediately to King David and say to him, ‘Did you not, my lord, O king, swear to your maidservant, saying, “Assuredly your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne”? Why then has Adonijah become king?’ 
1:14: Then, while you are still talking there with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm your words.” 
1:15: So Bathsheba went into the chamber to the king. Now the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the king. 
1:16: Bathsheba bowed and did homage to the king. Then the king said, “What do you wish?” 
1:17: Then she said to him, “My lord, you did swear by the Lord your God for the sake of your maidservant, saying, ‘Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne.’ 
1:18: But now behold, Adonijah has become king, and you, my lord, O king, do not know this. 
1:19: He sacrificed many calves, lambs, and sheep; and he has invited all the sons of the king, Abiathar the priest, and Joab the commander of the army, but not your servant Solomon. 
1:20: As for you, my lord, O king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, to tell them who will sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. 
1:21: Otherwise, when my lord the king rests with his fathers, I and my son Solomon will be reckoned as sinners.” 
1:22: Just then, while she was still talking with the king, Nathan the prophet also came in. 
1:23: So it was reported to the king, saying, “Here is Nathan the prophet.” When he came in before the king, he bowed down before the king with his face to the ground. 
1:24: Then Nathan said, “My lord and king, did you say, ‘Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne’? 
1:25: For he went down today and sacrificed many calves, lambs, and sheep, and invited all the king’s sons, and the commanders of the army, and Abiathar the priest. Behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and they said, ‘Long live King Adonijah.’ 
1:26: But he did not invite me—I your servant—nor Zadok the priest, nor Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, nor your servant Solomon. 
1:27: Was this done by my lord the king, and did you not tell your servant who will sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?” 
1:28: Then King David answered and said, “Call Bathsheba to me.” So she came into the king’s presence and stood before him. 
1:29: The king swore an oath and said, “As the Lord lives, who redeemed my life from every distress, 
1:30: just as I swore to you by the Lord God of Israel, saying, ‘Solomon your son shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place,’ so I will do today.” 
1:31: Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth, and paid homage to the king and said, “Let my lord, King David, live forever.” 
1:32: Then King David said, “Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada.” So they came before the king. 
1:33: The king said to them, “Take the servants of your lord with you, and have Solomon my son ride on my own mule, and take him down to Gihon. 
1:34: There let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him as king over Israel, and blow the ram’s horn, and say, ‘Long live King Solomon!’ 
1:35: Then he shall sit on my throne and be king in my place. For I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and Judah.” 
1:36: Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king and said, “Let it be done. May the Lord, God of my lord the king, establish it. 
1:37: As the Lord has been with my lord the king, even so may He be with Solomon and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord, King David.” 
1:38: So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites mounted Solomon on King David’s mule, and they led him to Gihon. 
1:39: Then Zadok the priest took a horn of olive oil from the tabernacle and anointed Solomon. They blew the ram’s horn, and all the people said, “Long live King Solomon!” 
1:40: Then all the people went up after him, and the people danced and rejoiced with great joy. So the earth burst forth with their sound. 
1:41: Now Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they finished eating. Joab also heard the sound of the horn and said, “Why is the city in such a noisy uproar?” 
1:42: While he was yet speaking, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar the priest, arrived. Adonijah said to him, “Come in, for you are a prominent man, and you bring good news.” 
1:43: Then Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, “No, our lord, King David, made Solomon king. 
1:44: The king sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and they mounted him on the king’s mule. 
1:45: So Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anointed him as king at Gihon. They went up from there rejoicing, so the city is in an uproar. This is the noise you heard. 
1:46: Even now, Solomon is seated on the throne of the kingdom. 
1:47: The king’s servants also went to bless our lord, King David, saying, ‘May God make the name of Solomon your son greater than your name, and may He make his throne greater than your throne.’ Then the king worshiped upon his bed, 
1:48: and the king said, ‘Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who gave one from my seed to sit on my throne today, while my eyes see it.’ ” 
1:49: So all the guests with Adonijah were afraid, and arose, each one going his own way. 
1:50: Now Adonijah feared Solomon. So he arose and departed, taking hold of the horns of the altar. 
1:51: They reported it to Solomon, saying, “Indeed, Adonijah is afraid of King Solomon. For behold, he took hold of the horns of the altar, saying, ‘Let King Solomon swear to me today that he will not put his servant to death with the sword.’ ” 
1:52: Then Solomon said, “If he proves to be a worthy man, not one hair of him shall fall to the earth. But if wickedness is found in him, he shall die.” 
1:53: So King Solomon sent them to bring him down from the altar. He came and fell down before King Solomon; and Solomon said to him, “Go to your house.”

