17:1: Now Elijah the Tishbite from Tishbe in Gilead said to Ahab, “As the Lord God of Hosts lives, the God of all Israel before whom I stand, there shall not be any dew nor rain during these years except at my word.” 
17:2: Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah, saying, 
17:3: “Depart and go eastward, and hide by the Brook Cherith, which flows into the Jordan. 
17:4: You shall drink water from the brook, and I shall command the ravens to feed you there.” 
17:5: So Elijah went and obeyed the word of the Lord, and stayed by the Brook Cherith, which flows into the Jordan. 
17:6: The ravens brought him bread in the morning and meat in the evening, and he drank water from the brook. 
17:7: But after a while the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land. 
17:8: Again the word of the Lord came to Elijah, saying, 
17:9: “Arise, go to Zarephath of Sidon and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to provide for you.” 
17:10: So he arose and went to Zarephath. When he came to the gate of the city, there was a widow gathering firewood. Elijah called to her and said, “Please bring me a little water in a cup so I can drink.” 
17:11: She went to get it, and Elijah called after her and said, “Please bring me a morsel of bread in your hand.” 
17:12: But the woman said, “As the Lord your God lives, I do not have any bread, only a handful of flour in a bin, and a little oil in a jar. You see I am gathering a couple of sticks, so I can go in and prepare it for myself and my son, that we may eat it and die.” 
17:13: But Elijah said to her, “Take courage, and do as you say, but make me a small cake from it first and bring it to me. Afterward make some for yourself and your son. 
17:14: For thus says the Lord, ‘The bin of flour shall not be used up, and the jar of oil shall not run dry, until the day the Lord sends rain on the earth.’ ” 
17:15: So the woman went and did it. Thus she and he and her children ate for many days. 
17:16: The bin of flour was not used up, and the jar of oil did not run dry, according to the word the Lord spoke by Elijah. 
17:17: Now after this, the son of the woman who owned the house became sick. His sickness was so serious there was no breath left in him. 
17:18: So she said to Elijah, “What have I to do with you, O man of God? You came to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son.” 
17:19: But Elijah said to her, “Give me your son.” So he took him out of her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his bed. 
17:20: Then Elijah cried out to the Lord and said, “Woe is me, O Lord! The witness of the widow with whom I lodge, you have embittered her by killing her son.” 
17:21: Then he stretched himself out on the child three times, and called on the Lord and said, “O Lord my God, let the soul of this child come back to him.” 
17:22: So it happened, and the child cried out. 
17:23: He took the child and brought him down from the upper room of the house, and gave him to his mother. Elijah said, “Behold, your son lives.” 
17:24: Then the woman said to Elijah, “Now I know that you are a man of God, and the word of the Lord in your mouth is the truth.”

