7:1: “King Ptolemy Philopator, to the commanders in Egypt and to all those in authority in our government, greetings and health. 
7:2: We ourselves are well, as are our children, with the great God guiding our affairs as we desire. 
7:3: Some of our friends through malignity kept urging us and finally persuaded us to gather the Jews in our kingdom, to have them punished in a body with unusual punishments, as if they were rebels. 
7:4: They argued that until this was accomplished, our government would never be stable because of their ill will toward all nations. 
7:5: They led them out cruelly in fetters as slaves, or rather as traitors, and without making any inquiry or investigation, they attempted to attack them, girding themselves with fierceness more savage than that of the Scythians. 
7:6: But because of the fairness we have toward all men, we threatened them severely for these things. Yet we barely spared their lives because we recognized that the heavenly God surely protects the Jews, as a father protects his sons and fights on their behalf. 
7:7: We considered the steadfast goodwill they had toward us and toward our brothers, and justly acquitted them from every manner of charge. 
7:8: Then we ordered our people to go about their business, each in his own place, with no one harming them or reproaching them undeservedly about what happened. 
7:9: For you know that if we plot any evil against them or trouble them at all, we will have not man but God the Most High, the Master of all power, unfavorable to us in vengeance for these things and inescapable in everything forever. Farewell.” 
7:10: When they received this letter, the Jews did not hasten to depart immediately, but rather petitioned the king, that those of the race of Jews who transgressed the law of the Holy God should receive the punishment they deserved. 
7:11: They proclaimed that those who transgressed the divine commands on account of their appetites would never again be favorable toward the king’s government. 
7:12: So he accepted the truth of what they said and deferred to them, giving them permission in all things to destroy those who had transgressed the law of God throughout his kingdom with boldness and without any royal authority or supervision. 
7:13: Then their priests and the whole multitude extolled the king and, as was appropriate, responded with an alleluia, and departed in joy. 
7:14: As they went their way, they punished and killed anyone of their race they encountered who had defiled himself, putting him to public shame. 
7:15: So on that day they killed more than three hundred men, and they held a joyous festival because they had overtaken those who were defiled. 
7:16: Then those who had held firmly to God to the point of death received the pleasure of their deliverance. They left the city wreathed in all sorts of sweet-smelling flowers with joyful shouts of thanks in praises and melodious hymns to the God of their fathers, the everlasting Savior of Israel. 
7:17: But when they reached Ptolemais, called the Rose-bearing City because of the special character of the place, the fleet had waited there for seven days according to the plan they determined. 
7:18: They held a feast of deliverance there for the king who liberally supplied them with everything they needed for their journey home. 
7:19: When they reached land in peace with proper giving of thanks, they also decided to again set apart these days for joyful festivity during their stay. 
7:20: They marked these days on a column inscribed and set in the banquet site, consecrating it as a place of prayer. Then they went away safely through land, sea and river, each to his own home, free and overjoyed by the command of the king. 
7:21: They had more honor than before among their adversaries, were held in esteem and awe, and none of them lost any of their belongings. 
7:22: Instead, they reclaimed all of their own things which had been registered. If anyone held something of theirs, they returned it with the greatest fear, since the Almighty God had done perfectly magnificent works to gain their deliverance. 
7:23: Blessed is the Savior of Israel unto ages of ages! Amen.

