2:1: The high priest Simon bent his knees before the temple and stretched out his hands with great dignity, calmly offering the following prayer: 
2:2: “O Lord, Lord, King of the heavens and Master of all creation, Holy One among the holy ones, the only Ruler, the Almighty: attend to us who are grievously oppressed by an unholy and irreverent man who is arrogant in his audacity and power. 
2:3: For You, the Creator of all and Ruler over all, are a righteous Master, and You judge those who do anything with insolence and arrogance. 
2:4: In the past You destroyed those who acted unjustly, among whom were the giants who trusted in their physical strength and boldness, whom You destroyed by bringing the great flood of water upon them. 
2:5: You burned up with fire and brimstone the inhabitants of Sodom, who acted in arrogance and were notorious for their evil acts, and You made them an example for those who came after them. 
2:6: You made known Your might and power among men and brought many different acts of punishment on the arrogant Pharaoh, who enslaved Your holy people Israel. 
2:7: For when he chased after them with horse-drawn chariots and a myriad of troops, You overwhelmed him in the depths of the sea, and brought across to safety those who trusted in You, the King of all creation. 
2:8: So when they considered the works of Your hands, they praised You, the Almighty God. 
2:9: “You, O King, created the endless and measureless earth and chose this city. You sanctified this holy place for Your name and hallowed it by its magnificent appearance, even though You have no need of anything. You made its structure solid for the glory of Your great and honorable name. 
2:10: “Because You love the house of Israel, You promised thatif we should suffer setbacks and if distress should overtake us, You would hear our supplication when we come into this place to pray. 
2:11: Indeed You are faithful and true. 
2:12: But often when our fathers were afflicted, You helped them in humility and saved them from great evils. 
2:13: Behold, O holy King, how we are oppressed because of our manifold sins, subjected to our enemies and lying in helplessness. 
2:14: In our downfall this arrogant and ungodly man continues to desecrate the holy place which is dedicated to the name of Your glory on the earth. 
2:15: Your dwelling place, the heaven of the heavens, is unapproachable by men. 
2:16: But since You by your grace consented to grant Your glory upon Your people Israel, You hallowed this place. 
2:17: Do not punish us for the defilement caused by these men and do not chastise us for this profanity. Do not allow these lawless people to brag in their anger and exult in the pride of their tongues, saying 
2:18: that they trampled the house of holiness, as the houses of abominations are trampled. 
2:19: “Wipe away our sins, disperse our errors and display Your compassion at this hour. 
2:20: Let Your mercies come upon us quickly. Grant praise in the mouth of us who have fallen and are crushed in our souls, and bring us peace.” 
2:21: Then God, who watches over all, our Holy Forefather among the holy ones, heard this lawful supplication and scourged the man who raised himself up in arrogance and audacity. 
2:22: He shook him on one side and the other, as a reed is shaken by the wind, so that he lay powerless on the ground. Besides being paralyzed in his limbs, he was unable to cry out, since he was struck by a righteous judgment. 
2:23: Therefore his friends and bodyguards alike were struck by an overwhelming fear, seeing the severe punishment that overtook him. Fearing he would die, quickly they dragged him away. 
2:24: Later, when he recovered, he still did not repent after being chastised, but went his way making bitter threats. 
2:25: Then Ptolemy crossed over to Egypt, where he increased his evil, assisted by the aforementioned drinking companions and comrades, who were unacquainted with anything righteous. 
2:26: He was not content with his countless acts of indecency, but audaciously proceeded to spread many evil reports throughout the region. Many of his friends observed the king’s intentions and adjusted themselves to conform to his will. 
2:27: He undertook to spread abroad a public blame against the Jewish nation, and raising a plaque on the tower at the palace, he carved this inscription: 
2:28: “No one shall enter the temple who does not sacrifice, but all the Jews shall be gathered for a census for taxation and reduced to servant status. Those who oppose this will be taken by force and put to death. 
2:29: Those registered are to be branded by fire on their bodies with the ivy leaf symbol of Dionysius, and they will also return to their former status.” 
2:30: But so as not to appear an enemy to all, he wrote underneath: “If some of them prefer to join those initiated into the mysteries, they will have equal rights of citizenship with the Alexandrians.” 
2:31: Some, then, obviously hated the price required to maintain godliness in the city. So they gave themselves up willingly, for they expected greater glory from the association they were about to have with the king. 
2:32: But most of them prevailed with a noble spirit and did not abandon their faith. They paid money to save their lives and fearlessly exerted themselves to be saved from the census. 
2:33: They remained hopeful of finding help, while loathing those who isolated themselves from them. They considered them betrayers of the nation, and therefore, deprived them of friendship and assistance.

