3:1: When the ungodly king heard this, he reached such a point of rage that he was angry not only at the Jews of Alexandria, but even more so against those in the countryside. So he commanded that they all be brought together in one place and put to death by the worst possible means. 
3:2: While these things were being organized, an antagonistic rumor was circulated against the Jewish nation by men who conspired to harm them. This was on the pretext the Jews hindered others from the observance of their customs. 
3:3: The Jews, though, maintained their goodwill and unswerving faith toward the throne. 
3:4: But because they worshiped God and lived by His precepts, they kept themselves separate from others with regard to food, and therefore, appeared hateful to some. 
3:5: But they adorned their way of life with the good deeds of righteous people, and thus established themselves as honorable to all men. 
3:6: Yet those of other nations took no account of the good works the Jews offered the nation, which was the common talk of all men. 
3:7: Instead they droned on about the differences in worship and foods, saying the Jews were not committed to the king or the authorities, but were hostile and in great opposition to his leadership. Therefore they attached no ordinary blame to them. 
3:8: Now there were Greeks in the city who had not been harmed in any way by the Jews, yet they observed the growing crowds and unprecedented tumult surrounding these people. But they could not help them because they lived in weakness under tyranny. But they attempted to comfort them and, being grieved, hoped for a change in the situation. 
3:9: For it was incomprehensible to ignore such a large group which had done no wrong. 
3:10: But already certain neighbors and business associates drew them aside, gave them pledges of protection and offered more serious efforts toward their defense. 
3:11: Then the king, who exalted himself in his current prosperity and did not consider the power of the Almighty God, assumed he could persist continually in the same purpose. So he wrote this letter against them: 
3:12: “King Ptolemy Philopator, to the commanders and soldiers in Egypt and the surrounding region, greetings and health. 
3:13: I myself and my government are well. 
3:14: When our expedition to Asia took place, as you know, and was brought to completion according to expectation by the help of the gods not lightly given, 
3:15: we thought it fit not by force of the spear, but by equity and great benevolence, to foster the peoples inhabiting Coelesyria and Phoenicia and to willingly treat them well. 
3:16: We distributed large revenues to the priests around the cities, and also went to Jerusalem to honor the temple of those guilty people, who never cease from their folly. 
3:17: They accepted our presence in word, yet were insincere in their deeds. For when we were eager to enter their inner shrine and honor it with extraordinary and most beautiful votive offerings, 
3:18: we were carried away by arrogant old men who prevented us from entering. But they were spared the exercise of our strength because of the benevolence we have toward all men. 
3:19: Yet as they kept up their obvious hostility toward us, they became unique among the nations, because they lifted their heads against kings and benefactors and did not want to consider any deed as sincere. 
3:20: “But we adapted ourselves to their foolishness and crossed into Egypt with victory. We met all nations with kindness and did what was proper. 
3:21: Yet in this matter we proclaimed forgiveness to all of their kinsmen in Jerusalem. Then because of our confederacy with them and the many things we entrusted to them in sincerity from of old, we dared to make a change and grant them the honor of Alexandrian citizenship. So in this way they would be partakers of the things that are always sacred. 
3:22: “They, however, took it in a different spirit. With their innate malice, they rejected it and turned aside to evil. 
3:23: Not only did they reject the priceless citizenship, but they even showed loathing in word and silence toward the few among them who were sincerely disposed toward us. So quite in keeping with their infamous way of life, they suspected that we would quickly reverse our policy. 
3:24: Therefore we placed great trust in the signs that these men were ill-disposed toward us in every way. Thus we took precautions against the possibility that a sudden disturbance might rise up against us later, for we considered these impious men to be betrayers behind our backs and barbarian enemies. 
3:25: So we have ordered that as soon as this letter arrives, those who live there with their wives and children should be sent to us immediately by force in iron shackles, bound securely on all sides, for a fatal and shameful massacre as is fitting to traitors. 
3:26: When they have been punished, we are certain that our government will be established afterward in tranquility and security. 
3:27: “But whoever conceals any of the Jews, from old man to infant or even sucklings, will be killed with the cruelest tortures, along with his entire household. 
3:28: Whoever is willing to give information will receive the estate of the one who is punished, as well as two thousand drachmas of royal silver, and will be crowned with freedom. 
3:29: Every place without exception where a Jew is found concealed will become desolate and burned with fire, and will become useless for all time for every mortal creature.” 
3:30: This is the manner in which the letter was written.

