14:1: In the second year of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, became king. 
14:2: He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he ruled for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 
14:3: He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, yet not like his father David. He did everything as did his father Joash. However he did not remove the high places, and the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
14:5: And it came to be, when the kingdom was established in his hand, Amaziah had his servants who had murdered his father struck with a deadly blow. 
14:6: But he did not have the sons of the murderers put to death, for just as it is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, as the Lord commanded, saying, “Fathers shall not face death on behalf of their sons, nor shall sons face death on behalf of their father, but each one shall face death for his own sin.” 
14:7: He killed ten thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt, and took Sela by war, and called it Joktheel, until this day. 
14:8: Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come here! Let us look one another in the face.” 
14:9: So Jehoash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son as wife’; but wild beasts of the fields in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thistle. 
14:10: You indeed defeated Edom, and your heart lifts you up. So while sitting at your house, be glorified in yourself; why wrangle in your hateful feelings and fall to your destruction, and Judah with you?” 
14:11: But Amaziah did not heed the words. So the king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the face at Beth Shemesh of Judah. 
14:12: Thus Judah fell before Israel, and every man fled to his tent. 
14:13: Then Jehoash, son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash, the son of Ahaziah, at Beth Shemesh. And Jehoash came to Jerusalem, and broke down four hundred cubits of the wall of Jerusalem, from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate. 
14:14: He took the silver and gold, and all the vessels found in the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the king’s house, and the indentured servants, and returned to Samaria. 
14:15: Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash, including all he did in his might, how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
14:16: So Jehoash rested with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. Then Jeroboam his son ruled in his place. 
14:17: Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel. 
14:18: Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah and all he did, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
14:19: They plotted a conspiracy against Amaziah in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent after him to Lachish, and there they put him to death. 
14:20: They brought him on horses, and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the City of David. 
14:21: Afterwards all the people of Judah took Azariah, when he was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah. 
14:22: After the king rested with his fathers, Azariah rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah. 
14:23: In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, Jeroboam the son of Joash became king over Israel in Samaria, and ruled for forty-one years. 
14:24: And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord and did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who led Israel to sin. 
14:25: He rescued the people from the territory of Israel, from the entrance to Hamath as far as the Sea of the Arabah, in accordance with the word the Lord God of Israel spoke through His servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet from Gath Hepher. 
14:26: For the Lord saw that the affliction of Israel was very bitter; that they were few in number, lacking much and forsaken, and there was no one to come to the aid of Israel. 
14:27: And the Lord said He would not blot out the seed of Israel from beneath heaven; so He delivered them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash. 
14:28: Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did and his power to wage war, and how he rescued Damascus and Hamath of Judah for Israel, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
14:29: So Jeroboam rested with his fathers, the kings of Israel. Then Azariah the son of Amaziah ruled in his place.

