24:1: In his days, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years. Then he turned and rebelled against him. 
24:2: So the Lord sent against him raiding bands of Chaldeans, bands of Syrians, bands of Moabites, and bands of the sons of Ammon. He sent them against the land of Judah to destroy it, true to the word of the Lord He had spoken by His servants the prophets. 
24:3: Moreover, it was the purpose of the Lord concerning Judah, to remove them from His sight. This, because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did, 
24:4: and for all the innocent blood he shed. For he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood and the Lord did not want to pardon him. 
24:5: Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and everything he did, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
24:6: So Jehoiakim rested with his fathers. Then Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place. 
24:7: As for the king of Egypt, he did not come out of his land anymore. The King of Babylon seized all that belonged to the king of Egypt, from the river of Egypt to the River Euphrates. 
24:9: Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for three months. His mother’s name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord, according to everything his father did. 
24:10: At that time Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, came up against Jerusalem and he besieged the city. 
24:11: And Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, entered the city and his servants besieged it. 
24:12: Then Jehoiachin king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, himself, and his servants, and his mother, and his officers, and his eunuchs. And the king of Babylon took him prisoner in the eighth year of his reign. 
24:13: Then he carried out from there all the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king’s house, and he cut in pieces all the articles of gold which Solomon the king of Israel made in the temple of the Lord, according to the word of the Lord. 
24:14: Also he carried into captivity all Jerusalem, all the officers and all the mighty men of valor, ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths. None remained except the poor of the land. 
24:15: He then carried Jehoiachin captive to Babylon along with the king’s mother, the king’s wives, and his eunuchs. And he led the mighty of the land into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon, 
24:16: and all the valiant men, seven thousand, and one thousand craftsmen and smiths, all of them strong and fit for war, these the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon. 
24:17: Then the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, his son, king in his place, and changed his name to Zedekiah. 
24:18: Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah. 
24:19: And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord, all that Jehoiakim had done. 
24:20: For it was according to the anger of the Lord against Jerusalem and Judah, until He finally cast them out from His presence, that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.

