15:1: In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Uzziah the son of Amaziah, king of Judah, became king. 
15:2: He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he ruled for fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jecholiah of Jerusalem. 
15:3: And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to everything his father Amaziah had done, 
15:4: except that he did not remove any of the high places. The people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
15:5: Then the Lord touched the king and he was a leper to the day of his death. He reigned in a house isolated from all others. Concerning matters of the household, Jotham the son of the king, judged the people of Israel. 
15:6: Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah and everything he did, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
15:7: So Uzziah rested with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the City of David. Then Jotham his son reigned in his place. 
15:8: In the thirty-eighth year of Uzziah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam ruled over Israel in Samaria for six months. 
15:9: And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord as his fathers had done. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who led Israel to sin. 
15:10: Then Shallum, the son of Jabesh, and Keblaam, conspired against him They struck and killed him, and Shallum ruled in his place. 
15:11: Now the rest of the acts of Zechariah, indeed they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
15:12: This was the word of the Lord which He spoke to Jehu saying, “Your sons shall sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation.” And so it was. 
15:13: Shallum the son of Jabesh became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah. And Shallum ruled for a month in Samaria. 
15:14: For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria. He struck Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and killed him. 
15:15: Now the rest of the acts of Shallum, and the conspiracy he led, indeed they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
15:16: Then Menahem attacked Tirzah, all who were there, and the extended area of Tirzah, because they did not open their gates to him. There he ripped open all the women who were with child. 
15:17: In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi became king over Israel, and ruled for ten years in Samaria. 
15:18: And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who had made Israel sin. 
15:19: In his days, Pul king of Assyria came against the land and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, so his hand would be with him. 
15:20: This money Menahem exacted from Israel, fifty shekels of silver each, from all the very wealthy, as tribute to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and he did not remain in the land. 
15:21: Now the rest of the acts of Menahem, and everything he did, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
15:22: So Menahem rested with his fathers. Then Pekahiah his son reigned in his place. 
15:23: In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem became king over Israel in Samaria and ruled for two years. 
15:24: And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin. 
15:25: Then Pekah the son of Remaliah his officer, along with Argob and Arieh, conspired against him and attacked him in Samaria, in the citadel of the king’s house. With him were fifty men of the four hundred. Pekah killed him and became king in his place. 
15:26: Now the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and everything he did is written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
15:27: In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah, became king over Israel in Samaria and ruled for twenty years. 
15:28: He did evil in the eyes of the Lord and did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who led Israel to sin. 
15:29: In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria came and captured Ijon, Abel Beth Maachah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and Galilee, the entire land of Naphtali. He exiled the people to Assyria. 
15:30: Then Hoshea the son of Elah, led a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and struck and killed him. He became king in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah. 
15:31: Now the rest of the acts of Pekah, and everything he did are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
15:32: In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah became king of Judah. 
15:33: He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he ruled for sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok. 
15:34: And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord,. according to everything his father Uzziah had done. 
15:35: However he did not remove the high places. The people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. He built the Upper Gate of the house of the Lord. 
15:36: Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and everything he did, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
15:37: In those days the Lord began to send Rezin king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, against Judah. 
15:38: So Jotham rested with his fathers, and was buried with them in the City of David, his father. Ahaz his son reigned in his place.

