22:1: Josiah was eight years old when he became king and he ruled for thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath. 
22:2: And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and walked in all the ways of his father David. He did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
22:3: Now in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, in the eighth month, the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the scribe of the house of the Lord, saying: 
22:4: “Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, and take account of the money brought into the house of the Lord gathered from the people. 
22:5: And let them deliver it into the hand of the appointed workers in the house of the Lord. So he gave it to those in the house of the Lord doing the work to repair the damages of the house; 
22:6: to the carpenters, and builders, and masons; to acquire wood and hewn stones, to strengthen the repairs of the house. 
22:7: However because they dealt faithfully, they were not asked to account for the money delivered into their hand.” 
22:8: Then Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, “I discovered the Book of the Law in the house of the Lord.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. 
22:9: Then he brought the book to King Josiah and turned to the king to report, saying, “Your servants have melted down the silver being found in the house of the Lord and given it to the ones having responsibility for repairs to the house of the Lord.” 
22:10: So Shaphan the scribe spoke to the king, saying, “Hilkiah the priest gave me a book.” And Shaphan read it before the king. 
22:11: Now when the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his clothes. 
22:12: Then the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Achbor the son of Michaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the servant of the king, saying, “
22:13: Go and inquire of the Lord for me, for all the people and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that was found. For great is the wrath of the Lord kindled against us, because our fathers did not hear and obey the words of this book, to do according to all the words of this book written concerning us.” 
22:14: So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, the keeper of the wardrobe who dwelt in Jerusalem studying the Law, and they spoke with her. 
22:15: And she said to them, “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘Tell the man who sent you to Me, 
22:16: ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon those who dwell here, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read. 
22:17: For they forsook Me and burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke Me to anger with the works of their hands. Therefore My wrath shall be kindled against this place. It shall not be quenched.’ ” 
22:18: And to the king of Judah, sending you to seek out the Lord, thus you shall say this to him: ‘Thus says the Lord God of Israel: “The words which you heard, 
22:19: because your heart was softened, and you humbled yourself before the Lord when you heard I spoke against this place and those dwelling in it, that it will disappear and become a curse, and you tore your clothes and wept before Me, so I have heard you,” says the Lord. 
22:20: “Behold, it shall not be so. I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace. Your eyes shall not see any of the evils which I shall bring on this place.” ’ ” They brought the message back to the king.

