10:1: Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote a letter and sent it to Samaria, to the rulers of Samaria, to the elders, and to those who reared the sons of Ahab, saying, 
10:2: “At the moment this letter is delivered to you, since your master’s sons are with you, and because you have chariots and horses, a fortified city, and weapons, 
10:3: choose the best qualified of your master’s sons, then set him on his father’s throne, and prepare to fight for your master’s house.” 
10:4: But they were very afraid, and said, “Look, two kings could not stand up to him. How can we stand?” 
10:5: Those over the house, and over the city, plus the elders, and including even those who reared the sons, sent word to Jehu saying, “We are your servants and we will do everything you tell us, but we will not make anyone king. Do what is good in your eyes.” 
10:6: Then Jehu wrote them a second letter, saying: “If you are for me and obey my voice, take the heads of the sons of your lord, and by this time tomorrow, bring them to me at Jezreel.” Now the sons of the king totaled seventy men. These well-educated headmasters from within the city reared them. 
10:7: But when the letter came to them, they took the seventy sons of the king and slaughtered them. They then put their heads in baskets and sent them to Jehu at Jezreel. 
10:8: Then a messenger came and spoke to Jehu, saying, “They have brought the heads of the king’s sons.” And he said, “Lay them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until morning.” 
10:9: So in the morning, he went out and stood at the gate and said to all the people, “You are the righteous ones! Indeed, I conspired against my master and killed him. But who struck down all these? 
10:10: See then that not one thing from the word of the Lord against the house of Ahab, fall on the ground for any reason. For the Lord has fulfilled all He spoke of by the authority of His servant Elijah.” 
10:11: So Jehu killed all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel; all his well-educated headmasters, his friends, and his priests, so no remnant of him survived. 
10:12: Then Jehu arose and departed to Samaria. When he was at Beth Eked of the Shepherds, 
10:13: Jehu found the brothers of Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, “Who are you?” So they answered, “We are the brothers of Ahaziah. We came down to greet the sons of the king and the sons of the queen mother.” 
10:14: And he said, “Take them alive!” So they took them alive and killed these forty-two men at Beth Eked; he left not one of them alive. 
10:15: After he departed from there, he found Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to greet him, and he bestowed a blessing on him. Jehu said to him, “Is your heart right with my heart, as my heart is right with your heart?” And Jehonadab answered, “It is.” Jehu said, “If it is, give me your hand.” So he gave him his hand, and he brought him into the chariot. 
10:16: Then he said, “Come with me, and see my zeal for the Lord of Hosts.” So Jehonadab rode in his chariot. 
10:17: And when Jehu came to Samaria, he killed all who remained to Ahab in Samaria; till he had completely destroyed them, according to the word the Lord spoke through Elijah. 
10:18: Then Jehu gathered all the people together, and said to them, “Ahab served Baal a little; Jehu will serve him much. 
10:19: Now all the prophets of Baal, all the servants of his, and the priests of his, must call upon me. Let not a man be missing, for I have a great sacrifice to offer Baal. Whoever is missing will not live.” But Jehu acted in deception in order to destroy the servants of Baal. 
10:20: And Jehu said, “Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal.” So they proclaimed it. 
10:21: Then Jehu sent to all Israel saying, “And now all the servants of Baal, and all his priests and all his prophets, let no one be left out. For I am making a great sacrifice, and if anyone is not in attendance, he shall not live.” Then all the servants of Baal and all his priests and all his prophets came. There was not a man who did not come, no one was left behind. And they entered the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other. 
10:22: So he said to the one in charge of the house and the wardrobe, “Bring out vestments for all the servants of Baal.” And the one in charge of the vestments brought them. 
10:23: Then Jehu and Jehonadab the son of Rechab entered the house of Baal, and said to the servants of Baal, “Search and see whether there are any servants of the Lord here, or only servants of Baal.” 
10:24: So they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. Now Jehu appointed for himself eighty guards to be on the outside, and said to them, “If any of the men I brought into your hands escapes, whoever lets him escape, it shall be his life for the life of the one he spares.” 
10:25: Now it happened that when Jehu finished offering the whole-burnt offering, he said to the guards and to the officers, “Go in and kill every person. Let no one come out!” And they killed them with the edge of the sword. Being completely overrun, the guards, even the officers, cast the bodies out. They then proceeded to the city of the house of Baal, 
10:26: and they brought out the foundational pillar of Baal and burned it. 
10:27: Then they pulled down the other pillars of Baal, and demolished the house. It was made into a latrine, and remains so to this day. 
10:28: Thus Jehu destroyed Baal from Israel. 
10:29: However Jehu did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, by way of the golden calves that were at Bethel and Dan. 
10:30: So the Lord said to Jehu, “Because of the many upright deeds which you did to carry out the good in My sight, and according to all things that were in My heart, which you did to the house of Ahab, your sons to the fourth generation, shall sit for you on the throne of Israel.” 
10:31: Even still, Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the Lord God of Israel with his whole heart. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, who caused Israel to sin. 
10:32: In those days, the Lord began to divide off parts of Israel. All along the border of Israel, Hazael defeated them; 
10:33: from the Jordan River eastward, all the land of Gilead of the Gadites, that of Gad and that of Reuben and of Manasseh; from Aroer which is on the bank of the brook of Arnon, and to Gilead and Bashan. 
10:34: Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, all he did, all the wars he engaged in, and the alliances he formed, are these not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
10:35: So Jehu rested with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. Then Jehoahaz his son ruled in his place. 
10:36: And the period that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years.

