7:1: Thus the Lord showed me: Behold, He formed locust swarms at dawn; and behold, one locust, Gog, was the king. 
7:2: And so it was when they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said: “O Lord, Lord, be merciful! Who will raise up Jacob? For he is small! 
7:3: Repent, O Lord, concerning this.” And the Lord said, “It shall not be.” 
7:4: Thus the Lord showed me: Behold, the Lord called for judgment by fire, and it engulfed the great deep and devoured the Lord’s portion. 
7:5: Then I said: “Lord, Lord, cease, who will raise Jacob? For he is small! 
7:6: Relent, Lord, concerning this.” “This also shall not be,” said the Lord. 
7:7: Thus He showed me: Behold, a man stood on a wall made of adamant, with adamant in his hand. 
7:8: And the Lord said to me, “Amos, what do you see?” And I said, “Adamant.” Then the Lord said, “Behold, I am placing adamant in the midst of My people Israel. I shall not pass by them anymore. 
7:9: The joyful altars will be abolished, and the sacrifices of Israel will be laid waste. I shall rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.” 
7:10: Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, “Amos conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words. 
7:11: For thus Amos has said, ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel will surely be led away captive from their own land.’ ” 
7:12: Then Amaziah said to Amos, “Go, you seer! Flee to the land of Judah. Live out your life there, and prophesy there. 
7:13: But no longer prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king’s sanctuary, his royal residence.” 
7:14: Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, “I was no prophet nor the son of a prophet. I was but a sheepbreeder and a tender of sycamore fruit. 
7:15: Then the Lord took me from the sheep, and the Lord said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to My people Israel.’ 
7:16: Now therefore, hear the word of the Lord, ‘You say, Do not prophesy to Israel, and do not stir up the house of Jacob.’ 
7:17: Therefore thus says the Lord, ‘Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and daughters shall fall by the sword. Your land shall be divided by a survey line, and you shall die in a defiled land. Israel shall surely be led away captive from his own land.’ ”

