2:1: Thus says the Lord, “For three sins of Moab, and for four, I shall not turn away its punishment, for he burned the bones of the king of Edom to ashes. 
2:2: Therefore I shall send a fire against Moab, and it will consume the foundations of their cities, and in helplessness, Moab shall die with shouting and with the sound of a trumpet. 
2:3: And I shall put to death the judge from her midst and slay all her princes with him,” says the Lord. 
2:4: Thus says the Lord: “For three sins of the sons of Judah, and for four, I shall not turn away its punishment, for they rejected the law of the Lord and did not keep His ordinances. And the vain idols made by their fathers led them astray. These were lies their fathers followed. 
2:5: So I shall send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the foundations of Jerusalem.” 
2:6: Thus says the Lord, “For three sins of Israel, and for four, I shall not turn away its punishment, for they sold the righteous for silver and the poor for a pair of sandals. 
2:7: They trample the heads of the poor into the dust of the earth and turn away the afflicted and pervert the way of the humble. A son and his father go in to the same handmaiden, in order to profane the name of their God. 
2:8: And having bound their clothes with cords, they made curtains by the altar, and they drank wine gained through false accusations in the house of their God. 
2:9: “Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars and who was as strong as an oak tree. It was I who dried up his fruit from above and his roots beneath the ground. 
2:10: And it was I who brought you up out of the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness, that you would inherit the land of the Amorite. 
2:11: I took some of your sons as prophets and some of your young men to be consecrated. Is this not so, O you children of Israel?” says the Lord. 
2:12: “But you gave the consecrated ones wine to drink and commanded the prophets saying, ‘Do not prophesy!’ 
2:13: Behold, For this reason, I weigh you down just as a wagon being filled with sheaves is weighed down. 
2:14: Therefore, escape will be totally lost to the swift, and the strong will certainly lose his strength, and the warrior will in no way be able to save his life. 
2:15: The archer will not stand his ground, and the swift foot will not escape danger, and the horseman will be completely unable to save his life. 
2:16: The strong will find no confidence in their strength; the naked will flee away in that day,” says the Lord.

