4:1: Hear this word, O heifers of Bashan who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who trample the needy, and who say to their lords, “Bring us wine that we may drink!” 
4:2: The Lord swears by His holiness: “Behold, the days shall come upon you, for they will seize you with weapons and cast you and those with you into boiling caldrons. 
4:3: You shall be brought out naked before one another and be cast out on Mount Hermon,” says the Lord God. 
4:4: “You come to Bethel and act lawlessly and multiply your transgressions in Gilgal. You bring your sacrifice in the morning and your tithes every three days. 
4:5: Moreover, outside they read things of the Law, and call for professions. Proclaim that the children of Israel love these things,” says the Lord God. 
4:6: “And in all your cities I gave you cleanness of teeth, and in all your places a lack of bread. Yet you did not return to Me,” says the Lord. 
4:7: “And also, I withheld rain from you for the three months before the harvest. I caused it to rain upon one city while I withheld rain from another. On one field it rained, but where it did not rain, the crops withered. 
4:8: So two or three cities wandered to another city to drink water, but they were not satisfied. Yet, says the Lord, “you did not return to Me.” 
4:9: “I struck you with a parching, and blight. When you multiplied your gardens, your vineyards, your fig-trees and your olive trees, the caterpillar devoured them. Yet you did not turn back to Me,” says the Lord. 
4:10: “I sent forth death against you by way of Egypt, and I killed your young men with a sword, together with your captured horses. And in My wrath I brought fire upon your army camps. Yet you did not return to Me,” says the Lord. 
4:11: “I overthrew you as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you became like a torch that burns out after being plucked out of the fire. Yet even after all this you did not return to Me,” says the Lord. 
4:12: “Therefore, O Israel, thus shall I do to you, and because I will do thus to you, make yourself ready to call upon your God, O Israel! 
4:13: For behold, I am the One who strengthens the thunder, and creates the wind and proclaims His Anointed One to mankind, making the daybreak and the darkness, while treading upon the high places of the earth. The Lord God Almighty is His name!”

