6:1: Woe to those who feel secure in Zion and who trust in Mount Samaria. They have gathered the notable heads of the nations who go there. 
6:2: O house of Israel, all of you, go and see. Go to Hamath the great, and then go down to Gath of the Philistines, the most powerful of all those kingdoms. See if their territory is greater than your territory. 
6:3: You who are approaching the evil day, who draw near and hold false sabbaths. 
6:4: You who lie on beds of ivory, who stretch out on your couches and eat kids from the flock and suckling calves from the midst of the herds, 
6:5: who applaud the sound of stringed instruments, considering them as if permanent and not fleeting, 
6:6: who drink filtered wine and anoint yourselves with the best ointments, and have suffered nothing because of the affliction of Joseph. 
6:7: Therefore, now they shall be taken captive first, and the neighing of horses will be cut off from Ephraim. 
6:8: For the Lord has sworn by Himself saying: “I abhor all the pride of Jacob, and I hate his lands. Therefore I shall destroy the city and all its inhabitants.” 
6:9: Then it shall come to pass that if ten men remain in one house, they will die. 
6:10: But a remnant will remain, and they will diligently endeavor to remove the bones of their relations from the house; and one will say to those standing before the house, “Are there any more with you?” Then someone will say, “None.” And he will say, “Hold your tongue! For we dare not mention the name of the Lord.” 
6:11: For behold, the Lord commands, and He shall break the great house into bits and the little house into pieces. 
6:12: Will horses run on rocks? Do they keep silent among mares? Yet you turned justice into anger and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness; 
6:13: you who rejoice vainly, who say, “Have we not possessed horns by our own power?” 
6:14: “But, behold! I shall raise up a nation against you, O house of Israel, and they will afflict you from the entrance of Hamath to the river of the west.”

