7:1: In the first year of Belshazzar, king of the Chaldeans, Daniel saw a dream and visions in his head upon his bed. Then he wrote down the dream: 
7:2: I, Daniel, looked on in my vision in the night, and behold, the four winds of heaven blew violently upon the great sea. 
7:3: Then four large beasts came up from the sea, each different from the other. 
7:4: The first was like a lioness, and it had wings like an eagle. I looked on until its wings were plucked out, and it was driven from the earth and made to stand on human feet; and a human heart was given to it. 
7:5: After this, behold, there was a second beast like a bear. It rose up on one side and had three ribs in its mouth, between its teeth. Thus they said to it, “Arise, devour much flesh!” 
7:6: After this, I kept looking and behold, there was another beast like a leopard, and it had the four wings of a bird on its back. There were also four heads on the beast, and authority was given to it. 
7:7: After this, I looked and behold, a fourth beast, fearful, terrifying, and exceedingly strong. It had huge iron teeth, and it was devouring, breaking in pieces, and trampling underfoot whatever was left. It was exceedingly different from all the beasts before it, and it had ten horns. 
7:8: I was especially noticing its horns, and behold, there was another horn, a little one. It came up among them, and the three horns of those before it were uprooted because of its presence; and behold, there were eyes like the eyes of a man in this horn, and it had a mouth speaking arrogant things. 
7:9: I continued to watch until thrones were put in place, and the Ancient of Days enthroned Himself. His clothing was white as snow, and the hair of His head was like pure wool. His throne was a fiery flame, and its wheels a burning fire. 
7:10: A river of fire flowed from before Him. Thousands and thousands ministered to Him, and countless thousands stood before Him. The court was in session, and the books were opened. 
7:11: Then I kept watching because of the sound of the arrogant words the horn was speaking. I watched until the beast was put to death and destroyed, and its body given to the burning flame. 
7:12: As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, yet length of life was given them for a season and a time. 
7:13: I continued to observe the vision in the night, and behold, One like the Son of Man was coming with the clouds of heaven, until He came to the Ancient of Days and approached Him. 
7:14: Then dominion, honor, and the kingdom were given to Him, and all peoples, tribes, and languages served Him. His authority is an everlasting authority which shall not pass away, and His kingdom shall not be destroyed. 
7:15: My spirit within me trembled with fear, and the visions in my head troubled me. 
7:16: Then I approached one of those who stood by and sought the precise meaning of all this from him. So he told me the precise meaning and made known to me the interpretation of the words: 
7:17: “These four large beasts are four kingdoms. They shall arise on the earth, then be taken away. 
7:18: After this, the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess it unto ages of ages.” 
7:19: Then I sought the precise meaning of the fourth beast, for it was different from all the others. It was exceedingly fearful, and its teeth were made of iron, and its nails of bronze. It was devouring, breaking in pieces, and trampling underfoot whatever was left. 
7:20: The ten horns on its head and the other horn, which had eyes and a mouth that spoke arrogant things, and the vision of which I noticed more than the rest, came up and knocked down the three horns before it. 
7:21: So I kept looking, and that horn made war with the saints and prevailed against them, 
7:22: until the Ancient of Days came and gave His judgment in favor of the saints of the Most High. Then the time arrived, and the saints possessed the kingdom. 
7:23: Thus he said: “The fourth beast shall be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which shall surpass all the kingdoms; and it shall devour all the earth, and trample and break it in pieces. 
7:24: Its ten horns are ten kings. They shall arise, and after them another shall arise. He shall surpass all those before him in evils, and he shall humble three kings. 
7:25: He will speak extremely arrogant words and wear down the saints of the Most High. He will devise a way to change times and law, and he shall be given authority for a time, times, and half a time. 
7:26: But the court shall go into session, and they shall take away his dominion to consume and destroy it forever. 
7:27: Then the kingdom, the authority, and the greatness of the kingdoms under heaven shall be given to the saints of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him.” 
7:28: This is the end of my account. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts greatly troubled me. My countenance changed, but I kept the matter to myself.

