5:1: Belshazzar the king made a great banquet for a thousand of his nobles, and drank wine in the presence of the thousand. 
5:2: While he tasted the wine, Belshazzar commanded to bring in the gold and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar his father had brought from the temple in Jerusalem, so the king, his nobles, his concubines, and his wives might drink from them. 
5:3: Thus the gold and silver vessels which he had brought from the temple of God in Jerusalem were brought in, and the king, his nobles, his concubines, and his wives drank from them. 
5:4: They drank wine and praised the gods made of gold, silver, copper, iron, wood, and stones. 
5:5: In the same hour, the fingers of a man’s hand came forth and wrote opposite the lamp on the plaster of the wall in the king’s house; and the king saw the knuckles of the hand that wrote. 
5:6: Then the appearance of the king changed, and his thoughts troubled him greatly. The joints of his hips were loosened, and his knees knocked against each other. 
5:7: So the king cried aloud to bring in the magicians, the Chaldeans and the diviners. He spoke to the wise men of Babylon, saying, “Whoever reads this writing and makes known its interpretation to me, he shall be clothed with purple and wear a gold chain around his neck. He shall also be the third ruler in my kingdom.” 
5:8: Now all the king’s wise men entered, but they could not read the writing or make known the interpretation to the king. 
5:9: So Belshazzar the king was greatly troubled, and his appearance changed in him; thus his nobles were very distressed. 
5:10: Then the queen entered the banquet hall and spoke, saying, “O king, live forever! Do not let your thoughts trouble you, nor let your countenance change. 
5:11: There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the Spirit of God. In the days of your father, vigilance and understanding were found in him, and King Nebuchadnezzar your father made him the chief of the enchanters, the magicians, the Chaldeans, and the diviners. 
5:12: Inasmuch as an excellent spirit, discernment, understanding, interpreting dreams, revealing things to be grasped, and explaining difficult sayings were found in Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar, now therefore, let him be summoned and he will tell you its interpretation.” 
5:13: Then Daniel was led in before the king, and the king said to Daniel, “Are you the Daniel from the children of the captives of Judea, whom my father the king brought here? 
5:14: I have heard of you, that the Spirit of God is in you, and vigilance, understanding, and an excellent wisdom are found in you. 
5:15: Now the wise men, the magicians, the diviners came before me to read this writing and make known its interpretation; but they could not reveal it to me. 
5:16: Then I heard about you, that you are able to interpret matters requiring a judgment. Now therefore, if you can read the writing and make known its interpretation to me, you will be clothed in purple and wear a gold chain around your neck. You shall also be the third ruler in my kingdom.” 
5:17: Then Daniel answered and said before the king, “Let your gifts be for yourself, and give the privilege of your house to another. But I will read the writing for the king and make known its interpretation to you. 
5:18: O king, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father a kingdom, majesty, honor, and glory. 
5:19: So because of the majesty He gave him, all peoples, tribes, and languages trembled and feared before him. Whomever he wished he put to death; whomever he wished he afflicted; whomever he wished he exalted; and whomever he wished he humbled. 
5:20: But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened with arrogance, he was deposed from his kingly throne, and his honor was taken from him. 
5:21: Then he was driven from men, his heart was made like that of wild animals, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. They fed him grass like an ox, and his body was covered with the dew of heaven, until he came to know that the Most High God rules over the kingdom of men and will give it to whomever He will. 
5:22: “But you his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, although you knew all this. 
5:23: Nevertheless you lifted yourself up against the Lord God of heaven and brought the vessels of His house before you. You, your nobles, your concubines, and your wives drank wine from them and praised the gods of gold, silver, copper, iron, wood, and stones, which do not see or hear or know. But you have not glorified the God who holds your breath in His hand and knows all your ways. 
5:24: “Therefore the finger of the hand was sent by Him, and He ordered this writing. 
5:25: So this is the writing He ordered: Mene, Tekel, Upharsin. 
5:26: Now this is the interpretation of each word. Mene: God has measured your kingdom and finished it. 
5:27: Tekel: He weighed you on the scales, but you were found lacking. 
5:28: Upharsin: Your kingdom has been divided and given to the Medes and Persians.” 
5:29: Then Belshazzar gave the command, and they clothed Daniel in purple, put a gold chain around his neck, and proclaimed him to be the third ruler in the kingdom. 
5:30: That very night Belshazzar, king of the Chaldeans, was put to death.

