8:1: In the third year of Belshazzar’s reign, a vision was revealed to me—to me, Daniel—after the one that appeared to me the first time. 
8:2: I was in Shushan, in the palace, in the province of Elam; and I saw in the vision that I was by the Ulai River. 
8:3: Then I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, one ram stood before the Ulai, and it had horns. The horns were high, but one was higher than the other; and the higher one came up last. 
8:4: I saw the ram pushing westward, northward, and southward, and no animal could withstand him or deliver from his power; but he did according to his will and became great. 
8:5: As I was considering this, behold, a male goat came from the southwest, across the surface of all the earth, without touching the ground; and the goat had a notable horn between its eyes. 
8:6: Then he came to the ram that had the horns, which I saw standing before the Ulai, and he ran at him with furious power. 
8:7: I saw him running at the ram, and attacking him savagely. He struck the ram and broke both his horns. There was no strength in the ram to withstand him, but he cast him to the ground and trampled him. There was no one that could deliver the ram from his power. 
8:8: So the male goat became exceedingly great, and when he became strong, his large horn was broken, and four horns came up under him toward the four winds of heaven. 
8:9: Then from one of them one strong horn came forth, strong and exceedingly great, toward the south and the east and toward the host. 
8:10: He exalted himself to the host of heaven, and some of the heavenly host and stars fell to the earth; and he trampled them underfoot 
8:11: until the chief captain delivered the host of captives. For because of him the sacrifice was thrown down; and it came about that he prospered, but the sanctuary was to become desolate. 
8:12: For the sin offering was offered as long as there was sacrifice, but he cast righteousness to the ground; and although he did this, he prospered. 
8:13: Then I heard one of the saints speaking, and another saint said to that one speaking, “How long will the vision stand, and the sacrifice be taken away, and the sin offering which was offered be desolated, and the sanctuary and host be trampled underfoot?” 
8:14: He replied to him, “Until two thousand and three hundred days of evening and morning, then the sanctuary shall be cleansed.” 
8:15: So it came about that when I, Daniel, saw the vision and sought to understand it, then, behold, the vision of a man stood before me. 
8:16: I heard the voice of this man in the midst of the Ulai, and he called and said, “Gabriel, cause that man to understand the vision.” 
8:17: Thus he came and stood near where I was standing; and when he came, I was astonished and fell on my face. Then he said to me, “Understand, son of man, for the vision is yet for the end of time.” 
8:18: Now when he spoke with me, I fell on my face to the ground, but he touched me and stood me on my feet. 
8:19: Then he said, “Behold, I will make known to you what shall take place in the last time of wrath, for the vision is yet for the end of time. 
8:20: The ram you saw with its horns is the king of the Medes and Persians. 
8:21: The male goat is the king of the Greeks, and the great horn between its eyes is the first king. 
8:22: When that horn is broken and four horns stand under it, four kings from that nation shall arise, but not with its might. 
8:23: “Then in the latter time of their kingdom, when sins are fulfilled, a king shall arise, shameless in countenance; and he will understand riddles. 
8:24: His strength will be mighty, and he shall destroy terribly. He shall prosper and take action, and destroy the mighty and the holy people. 
8:25: The yoke of his chain shall prosper. There will be treachery in his hand, and he shall magnify himself in his heart. He shall destroy many with deceit and stand for the destruction of many. He will crush them like an egg in his hand. 
8:26: Now the vision of the evening and the morning that was told is true: therefore, seal the vision, because it refers to many days in the future.” 
8:27: Then I, Daniel, fell asleep and was sick for days. After this, I arose and did the king’s business, and I wondered about the vision; but no one understood it.

