10:1: In the third year of Cyrus king of the Persians, a word was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar. The word was true, and great power and understanding were given to him in the vision. 
10:2: In those days, I, Daniel, was mourning three full weeks. 
10:3: I ate no desirable food, and no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself, until three whole weeks were fulfilled. 
10:4: Then on the twenty-fourth day of the first month, I was beside the great river, that is, the Tigris. 
10:5: I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, there was a man clothed in fine linen; and his waist was girded with gold of Uphaz. 
10:6: His body was like beryl, and his face like the appearance of lightning. His eyes were like lamps of fire, and his arms and legs like the appearance of shining brass. The sound of his words was like the voice of a multitude. 
10:7: I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men with me did not see the vision; but a great astonishment fell upon them, and they fled in fear. 
10:8: So I was left alone and saw this great vision, but no strength remained in me; for my splendor was turned into corruption, and I retained no strength. 
10:9: Yet I heard the sound of his words; and when I heard him, I was deeply troubled with my face on the ground. 
10:10: Suddenly, a hand touched me and raised me up on my knees. 
10:11: He said to me, “O Daniel, a man of desires, understand the words I speak to you and stand upright, for now I have been sent to you.” So when he spoke this word to me, I stood trembling. 
10:12: Then he said to me, “Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day you set your heart to understand and to afflict yourself before your God, your words were heard; and I came because of your words. 
10:13: But the prince of the Persian kingdom withstood me twenty-one days, and behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me; for I was left there with the ruler of the Persian kingdom. 
10:14: Now I have come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the last days, for the vision is for days yet to come.” 
10:15: When he had spoken these words to me, I turned my face toward the ground and was deeply troubled. 
10:16: Again suddenly, one having the likeness of a son of man touched my lips, and I opened my mouth and spoke, and said to the one standing before me, “My lord, because of your vision, my insides churned within me so I have no strength. 
10:17: For how can your servant, my lord, speak with my lord of this? As for me, no strength now remains in me, nor is any breath left in me.” 
10:18: Then again, the one like the appearance of a man touched me and strengthened me. 
10:19: He said to me, “O man of desires, peace be to you; be courageous and strong.” So when he spoke with me, I was strengthened and said, “Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me.” 
10:20: Then he said, “Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to the war against the ruler of the Persians, and I will go forth, and the ruler of the Greeks will come. 
10:21: But I will tell you what is noted in the Scripture of Truth—and there is no one loyal to me concerning this, except Michael your prince.

