1:1: In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it. 
1:2: The Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of God. Then he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his god. He carried them into the treasure house of his god. 
1:3: Then the king spoke to Ashpenaz, the chief of his eunuchs, to bring him some of the captives of Israel, and some of the royal family and some of the nobles—
1:4: young men in whom there was no blemish, but handsome, skilled in all wisdom, well grounded in letters, intelligent, and prudent, and who had the ability to serve in the king’s house, and whom they might teach the letters and language of the Chaldeans. 
1:5: The king also appointed a daily provision for them from the king’s table and from the wine he drank, and gave orders to educate them for three years. At the end of that time they were to stand before the king. 
1:6: Now among them there were Daniel, Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishael, sons of the tribe of Judah. 
1:7: So the chief of the eunuchs gave them names: to Daniel the name Belteshazzar; to Hananiah, Shadrach; to Mishael, Meshach; and to Azariah, Abednego. 
1:8: But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king’s food, nor with the wine he drank; therefore, he entreated the chief of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. 
1:9: Now the Lord gave Daniel mercy and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. 
1:10: So the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, “I fear my Lord the king, who ordered your food and drink, lest he see your countenances gloomy in comparison to the young men your equals. Then you would endanger my head before the king.” 
1:11: So Daniel said to Melzar, whom the chief of the eunuchs appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: 
1:12: “Test your servants for ten days, and let them give us vegetables to eat and water to drink. 
1:13: After this let our countenance be observed by you and the countenance of the young men who eat at the king’s table. Then deal with your servants as you see fit.” 
1:14: So he agreed with their proposal and tested them ten days. 
1:15: At the end of the ten days, their countenance was observed, and they were more fit and stronger in body than the young men who ate at the king’s table. 
1:16: Thus Melzar took away their food and wine, and gave them vegetables instead. 
1:17: As for these four young men, God gave them understanding and insight in all letters and wisdom, and He gave Daniel understanding in all visions and dreams. 
1:18: Now when their education was completed, the king ordered all the young men to be brought in. Thus the chief of the eunuchs brought them before Nebuchadnezzar. 
1:19: So the king spoke with them, and among all of them, none were found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. So they stood before the king. 
1:20: In every saying of wisdom and understanding about which the king examined them, he found them ten times better than all the enchanters and wise men in all his kingdom. 
1:21: Thus Daniel continued until the first year of the reign of King Cyrus.

