9:1: In the first year of Darius the son of Xerxes, of the seed of the Medes, who reigned over the kingdom of the Chaldeans—
9:2: in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, understood in the books the number of years when the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet would be fulfilled for the desolation of Jerusalem, and it came to seventy years. 
9:3: Then I set my face toward the Lord God to seek Him in prayer and supplication, with fasting, sackcloth, and ashes. 
9:4: So I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession. I said, “O Lord God, great and marvelous, who keep Your covenant and mercy with those who love You and keep Your commandments—
9:5: we sinned and did wrong. We acted lawlessly, fell away, and turned away from Your commandments and judgments. 
9:6: Neither did we obey Your servants the prophets who spoke in Your name to our kings, our rulers, our fathers, and to all the people in the land. 
9:7: O Lord, righteousness belongs to You, but shame of face belongs to us, as it is today, to the men of Judah, to those who dwell in Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those near and far in all the earth, wherever You scattered them in their faithlessness by which they rejected You. 
9:8: O Lord, shame of face belongs to us, our kings, our rulers, and to our fathers who sinned against You. 
9:9: To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, whereas we fell away. 
9:10: We have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in His laws, which He set before us by the hands of His servants the prophets. 
9:11: Yes, all Israel transgressed Your law and turned aside, so as not to obey Your voice. Therefore the curse and the oath written in the Law of Moses the servant of God has come upon us, because we sinned against You. 
9:12: So He confirmed His words which He spoke against us and against our judges who judged us, by bringing upon us great calamities; for under the whole heaven such has not taken place, as the things that happened in Jerusalem. 
9:13: As it is written in the Law of Moses, all these calamities came upon us, yet we have not entreated the Lord our God so as to turn from our wrongdoings, and to gain insight into all Your truth. 
9:14: Therefore the Lord watched and brought all these things upon us, for the Lord our God is righteous in every work He does, though we have not obeyed His voice. 
9:15: So now, O Lord our God, who brought Your people from the land of Egypt with a strong hand, and who made Yourself a name as it is this day, we have sinned and acted lawlessly. 
9:16: “O Lord, in all Your mercy, let Your anger and Your wrath be turned away from Your city of Jerusalem, Your holy mountain, though we have sinned; for in our wrongdoings and those of our fathers, Jerusalem and Your people have become a disgrace among all those around us. 
9:17: So now, O Lord our God, listen to the prayers of Your servant and his supplications, and cause Your face to shine on Your sanctuary, which is deserted because of You, O Lord. 
9:18: O my God, incline Your ear and hear; open Your eyes and see our destruction and that of Your city, in which Your name is called upon; for not on the basis of our righteous deeds do we bring our prayer for mercy before You, but on the basis of Your abundant mercy. 
9:19: O Lord, hear! O Lord, forgive! O Lord, give heed and act! Do not delay for Your sake, O my God, for Your city and Your people are called by Your name.” 
9:20: Now while I was still speaking, praying, and declaring my sins and the sins of my people Israel, and bringing my cry for mercy before the Lord my God concerning the holy mountain of my God, 
9:21: yes, while I was speaking in prayer, then the man Gabriel, whom I saw in my vision at the beginning, flew and touched me about the time of the evening sacrifice. 
9:22: He caused me to understand, and spoke with me and said, “O Daniel, I have now come forth to guide you with insight. 
9:23: At the beginning of your prayer, the word went out, and I have come to tell you, for you are a man of desires. Therefore, consider the matter and understand the vision: 
9:24: “Seventy weeks are determined for your people and for your holy city to finish sin, to set an end to sin, to wipe out lawlessness, to atone for wrongdoings, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Holy of Holies. 
9:25: You shall know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the word to be answered and to build Jerusalem, until Christ the Prince, there shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. Then the time shall return, and the streets and the wall shall be built; the times shall be left desolate. 
9:26: “After the sixty-two weeks, the Anointed One shall be put to death, yet there shall be no upright judgment for Him; and he shall destroy the city and the sanctuary with the prince who is coming, and they shall be cut off with a flood, and to the end of the war, which will be cut short, he shall appoint the city to desolations. 
9:27: Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week, and in the middle of the week, My sacrifice and drink-offering will be taken away; and there shall be in the temple the abomination of desolations, and to the end of the time, an end to the desolation shall be appointed.”

