3:1: In his eighteenth year, King Nebuchadnezzar made a golden image. Its height was sixty cubits and its width, six cubits, and he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. 
3:2: Then Nebuchadnezzar sent to gather together the high officials, the commanders, the governors, the rulers, and all those in authority, along with all the rulers of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the image King Nebuchadnezzar set up. 
3:3: So the governors, the high officials, the leaders, the great rulers—all those in authority who ruled the provinces came to the dedication of the image King Nebuchadnezzar set up, and they stood before the image Nebuchadnezzar made. 
3:4: Then the herald cried out in a loud voice, “To you it is commanded, O peoples and tribes and languages, 
3:5: that in what hour you hear the sound of the trumpet, the pipe, the harp, the four-stringed instrument, the psaltery, the symphony, and every kind of music, you shall fall down and worship the golden image King Nebuchadnezzar set up. 
3:6: But whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into the burning fiery furnace.” 
3:7: So at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the trumpet, the pipe, the harp, the four-stringed instrument, the psaltery, the symphony, and every kind of music, all the peoples, tribes, and languages fell down and worshipped the golden image King Nebuchadnezzar set up. 
3:8: Then Chaldean men came forward and brought charges against the Jews, 
3:9: and said to King Nebuchadnezzar, “O king, live forever. 
3:10: You, O king, made a decree, that every man who hears the sound of the trumpet, the pipe, the harp, the four-stringed instrument, the psaltery, the symphony, and every kind of music, 
3:11: but does not fall down and worship the golden image shall be cast into the burning fiery furnace. 
3:12: Now there are certain Jews you set over the affairs of the province of Babylon: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Those men did not obey your decree, O king; and they do not serve your gods, nor do they worship the golden image you set up.” 
3:13: Then Nebuchadnezzar, in rage and fury, gave the command to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. So the men were brought before the king. 
3:14: Nebuchadnezzar then answered and said to them, “Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image I set up? 
3:15: Now then, if you are ready, when you hear the sound of the trumpet, the pipe, the harp, the four-stringed instrument, the psaltery, the symphony, and every kind of music, that you shall fall down and worship the golden image I made. But indeed, if you do not worship it at that time, you shall be cast into the burning fiery furnace. Then what god is there who will deliver you from my hands?” 
3:16: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to King Nebuchadnezzar, “We have no need to answer you in regard to this thing. 
3:17: For there is a God in the heavens, whom we serve, and He is able to save us from the burning fiery furnace; and He will deliver us from your hands, O king. 
3:18: But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods, nor worship the golden image you set up.” 
3:19: Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of anger, and the expression on his face changed toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. So he commanded them to heat the furnace seven times more, until it burned to its fullest. 
3:20: Then he commanded certain very strong men to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace. 
3:21: Thereupon, those men were bound together with their sandals, caps, leg-coverings, and clothing, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. 
3:22: Because the king’s command was urgent, and the furnace was exceedingly hot, 
3:23: these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego fell bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. 
3:24: But they walked about in the midst of the flame, singing to God and praising the Lord. 
3:25: Then Azariah stood and prayed thus and opened his mouth in the midst of the fire and said: 
3:26: “Blessed are You and praiseworthy, O Lord, the God of our fathers, And praised and glorified is Your name unto the ages. 
3:27: For You are righteous in all You did for us, And all Your works are true. Your ways are upright, And all Your judgments are true. 
3:28: The judgments You made are true, According to all You brought on us And on the holy city of our fathers, Because in truth and judgment You did all these things on account of our sins. 
3:29: For we sinned and acted lawlessly To depart from You. We sinned in every way, And did not obey Your commandments. 
3:30: Neither did we treasure or do as You commanded, That it might go well with us. 
3:31: Everything You brought on us And all You did to us, You did in true judgment. 
3:32: You delivered us into the hands of lawless and rebellious enemies And to an unjust king—the most evil in any land. 
3:33: Now it is not for us to open our mouth, For this has become a shame and disgrace to Your servants And to those who worship You. 
3:34: For Your name’s sake, do not hand us over to the end, And do not reject Your covenant. 
3:35: Do not withdraw Your mercy from us for the sake of Abraham, Who is loved by You, and for the sake of Isaac, Your servant, And of Israel, Your holy one, 
3:36: As You spoke to them, saying That You would multiply their seed as the stars of heaven, And as the sand along the seashore. 
3:37: Yet we have been diminished in number, O Master, More than all the nations, And we are humbled in all the earth today because of our sins. 
3:38: “At this time, there is no prince, no prophet, and no leader; There is no whole burnt offering, no sacrifice, no offering, and no incense; There is no place to bear fruit before You and to find mercy. 
3:39: Yet with a contrite soul and humbled spirit, May we receive mercy, as with whole burnt offerings of rams and bulls, And as with thousands of fatted lambs. 
3:40: So let this be our sacrifice before You today, And m ay it be accomplished for those who follow You; For there is no shame for those who trust in You. 
3:41: Now we are following You with all our heart, And we fear You and seek Your face. 
3:42: “Do not put us to shame, But deal with us according to Your kindness And according to the abundance of Your mercy. 
3:43: Deliv er us by Your wondrous works And give glory to Your name, O Lord. 
3:44: May all those who inflict evils upon Your servants Be put to shame and humiliated in their power; And let their strength be crushed. 
3:45: Let them know that You alone are the Lord God And glorious over all the inhabited earth.” 
3:46: Now the king’s servants who cast them in did not cease to stoke the furnace with naphtha, pitch, coarse fiber, and brushwood. 
3:47: The flame shot forty-nine cubits above the furnace, 
3:48: and it broke out and burned those it found around the furnace of the Chaldeans. 
3:49: But the Angel of the Lord went down into the furnace to join Azariah and his companions, and shook off the fiery flame of the furnace. 
3:50: He made the inside of the furnace to be as though a dew-laden breeze were blowing through it, so the fire did not touch them at all, or cause them pain or trouble them. 
3:51: Then the three, as if with one mouth, sang, glorified, and blessed God in the furnace, saying: 
3:52: “Blessed are You, O Lord God of our fathers, For You are praiseworthy And exalted beyond measure unto the ages. Blessed is Your name and the temple of your glory, And You are praised exceedingly And exalted beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:53: You are blessed in the holy temple of Your glory, And are highly praised And exceedingly glorious unto the ages. 
3:54: Blessed are You on the throne of Your kingdom, And You are praised And exalted beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:55: “Blessed are You who behold the depths And sit upon the cherubim. You are praiseworthy And exalted beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:56: Blessed are You in the firmament of heaven, For You are praised and glorified unto the ages. 
3:57: Bless the Lord, all you works of the Lord, And sing a hymn to the Lord, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:58: Bless the Lord, you angels of the Lord, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:59: Bless the Lord, you heavens, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:60: Bless the Lord, all you waters above heaven, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:61: Bless the Lord, all you powers of the Lord, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:62: “Bless the Lord, you sun and moon, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:63: Bless the Lord, you stars of heaven, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:64: Bless the Lord, every shower and dew, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:65: Bless the Lord, all you winds, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:66: Bless the Lord, you fire and heat, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:67: “Bless the Lord, you winter cold and summer heat, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:68: Bless the Lord, you dews and snows, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:69: Bless the Lord, you frost and cold, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:70: Bless the Lord, you hoarfrosts and snows, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:71: Bless the Lord, you night and day, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:72: Bless the Lord, you light and darkness, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:73: “Bless the Lord, you lightning and clouds, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:74: Let the earth bless the Lord, And let it sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:75: Bless the Lord, you mountains and hills, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:76: Bless the Lord, all you things growing on the earth, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:77: Bless the Lord, you springs, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:78: Bless the Lord, you seas and rivers, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:79: “Bless the Lord, you sea-monsters and everything that moves in the waters, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:80: Bless the Lord, all you birds of heaven, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:81: Bless the Lord, all you wild animals and cattle, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:82: Bless the Lord, O children of men, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:83: Bless the Lord, O Israel, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:84: Bless the Lord, O priests of the Lord, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:85: Bless the Lord, O servants of the Lord, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:86: Bless the Lord, O spirits and souls of the righteous, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:87: Bless the Lord, O holy ones and humble in heart, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages. 
3:88: “Bless the Lord, O Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishael, And sing a hymn to Him, And exalt Him beyond measure unto the ages; For He delivered us from Hades And sav ed us from the hand of death. He rescued us from the midst of the burning fiery furnace And saved us from the midst of the fire. 
3:89: Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good, Because His mercy endures forever. 
3:90: Bless the Lord, the God of gods, All you who worship Him, And sing a hymn and give thanks to Him; For His mercy endures forever.” 
3:91: Now Nebuchadnezzar heard their singing, and he marveled and rose up in haste, and said to his nobles, “Did we not cast three men bound into the fire?” They replied to the king, “Truly, O king.” 
3:92: Then the king said, “Behold, I see four men untied and walking in the midst of the fire, yet they are not destroyed; and the vision of the fourth is like the Son of God.” 
3:93: Then the king approached the door of the burning fiery furnace, and called out to them by name, “Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come forth and come here!” So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came forth from the midst of the fire. 
3:94: Then the governors, the commanders, the viceroys, and the court officials gathered together and beheld the men, that the fire had no power over their bodies; neither had it singed their hair, nor scorched their clothes, nor was the smell of fire on them. 
3:95: So King Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, “Blessed is the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent His Angel and saved His servants who trusted in Him; for they altered the word of the king and handed over their bodies to be burned, so as not to serve and worship any god other than their God. 
3:96: Therefore I make a decree: ‘Any people, tribe, or language that blasphemes the God of Shadrach, Meshech, and Abednego shall be destroyed, and their houses plundered, because there is no other God who can deliver in this way.’ ” 
3:97: Then the king gave Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego authority over the province of Babylon, and considered them worthy to be the rulers of all the Jews in his kingdom.

