19:1: “Now if the Lord your God removes the nations whose land the Lord your God is giving you, and you inherit them and dwell in their cities and in their houses, 
19:2: you shall separate three cities for yourself in the midst of the land the Lord your God gives you. 
19:3: You shall prepare roads for yourself, and divide into three parts the boundaries of your land the Lord your God divides into sections for you, that any manslayer may flee there. 
19:4: Now this shall be the ordinance of the manslayer who flees there, that he may live: Whoever strikes his neighbor involuntarily, not having hated him hitherto up until now—
19:5: as when a man goes to the woods with his neighbor to cut timber, and his hand swings a stroke with the ax to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle and strikes his neighbor, that he dies—he shall flee to one of these cities and live; 
19:6: lest the avenger of blood, while his anger is hot, pursue the manslayer and overtake him, because the way is long, and strikes this soul, and he dies, though there was no judgment rendered that he should die, because he had not hated the victim hitherto up until now. 
19:7: Therefore I command you this word, saying, ‘You shall separate three cities for yourself.’ 
19:8: “But if the Lord your God enlarges your territory in the manner He swore to your fathers, and the Lord gives you the land He promised to give to your fathers, 
19:9: and if you hear and do all these commandments I command you today, to love the Lord your God and walk in all His ways all your days, then you shall add three more cities for yourself besides these three, 
19:10: lest innocent blood be shed in the midst of your land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, and thus the guilt of bloodshed be upon you. 
19:11: But if there should be a man that hates his neighbor, and lies in wait for him, and rises against him, and strikes this soul, and he dies, and then this man flees to one of these cities, 
19:12: then the elders of his city shall send and bring him from there, and deliver him over to the hands of the avenger of blood, that he may die. 
19:13: Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall cleanse the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, that it may be well with you. 
19:14: “You shall not remove your neighbor’s boundaries your fathers established in your inheritance, which you will inherit in the land the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance. 
19:15: “One witness shall not rise against a man about any injustice or offense or sin concerning which he may be guilty; by the mouth of two or three witnesses the matter shall be established. 
19:16: If an unjust witness rises against any man accusing him of impiety, 
19:17: then both men in the controversy shall stand before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who serve in those days. 
19:18: Thus the judges shall make careful inquiry, and indeed, if the witness is an unjust witness who has testified unjustly against his brother, 
19:19: then you shall do to him in the manner he maliciously intended to do to his brother; so you shall put away the evil from among you. 
19:20: Then those who remain shall hear and be afraid, and hereafter they shall not again commit such evil among you. 
19:21: Your eye shall not pity him: life shall be for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.

