33:1: Now this is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death. 
33:2: Thus he said: “The Lord came down from Sinai And appeared to us from Seir; He hastened from Mount Paran Along with my riads at Kadesh, angels with Him at His right hand; 
33:3: And He spared His people And all the sanctified ones under Your hands; And these are under You, And received the law from His words 
33:4: Which Moses commanded us, A heritage of the congregations of Jacob. 
33:5: And there shall be a Ruler among the beloved people When the rulers of the people are gathered, Together with the tribes of Israel. 
33:6: “Let Reuben live, and not die, And let him be many in number.” 
33:7: This he said of Judah: “Hear, O Lord, the voice of Judah, And let him visit his people; His hands will judge for him, And may You be a help against his enemies.” 
33:8: To Levi he said: “Give to Levi, to the holy man, his Urim and Thummim, Him whom they tested with testing, Whom they reviled at the Water of Contention, 
33:9: Who says to his father and mother, ‘I have not seen you’; Nor did he know his brothers or his own children; They guarded Your oracles And kept Your covenant. 
33:10: They shall manifest Your judgments to Jacob And Your law to Israel. They shall lay incense when You are angry Continually on Your altar. 
33:11: Bless his strength, O Lord, And accept the works of his hands; Bring down the loins of those who rise against him And of those who hate him, so they rise not again.” 
33:12: To Benjamin he said: “Beloved by the Lord, he shall dwell in hope, And God shall overshadow him all his days; And he rested between his shoulders.” 
33:13: To Joseph he said: “Blessed of the Lord is his land, Of the seasons of heaven, of the dew And of the deep springs lying beneath, 
33:14: And in due season of the produce of the solar cycle And of the conjunction of the months, 
33:15: Both from the top of the ancient mountains And from the top of the everlasting hills; 
33:16: And in due season of the fullness of the land And the things acceptable to the One revealed in the Bush. May these things come ‘upon the head of Joseph, And on the crown of the one glorified among his brothers.’ 
33:17: His beauty is like the firstborn of a bull And his horns like the horns of the unicorn; With them He will gore nations together Even to the ends of the earth. They are the ten thousands of Ephraim, And they are the thousands of Manasseh.” 
33:18: To Zebulun he said: “Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, And Issachar in his tents. 
33:19: They shall annihilate nations, And there you will call upon the Lord And sacrifice a sacrifice of righteousness, For the wealth of the sea shall suckle you, And the trade of those dwelling by the sea.” 
33:20: To Gad he said: “Blessed is He who enlarges Gad; He rested as a lion And crushed the arm and the head. 
33:21: He saw his firstfruit, Because the land of the rulers was apportioned there, When the rulers were gathered together With the rulers of the people. The Lord administered righteousness And His judgments with Israel.” 
33:22: To Dan he said: “Dan is a lion’s cub, And he shall leap from Bashan.” 
33:23: To Naphtali he said: “Naphtali has an abundance of acceptable things, And let him be full of blessing from the Lord. He shall inherit the sea and the south.” 
33:24: To Asher he said: “Blessed is Asher beyond sons, And let him be acceptable to his brothers. He shall dip his foot in olive oil. 
33:25: His sandals shall be iron and bronze; And as your days, so shall your strength be. 
33:26: There is no one like the God of the Beloved, Who rides upon heaven and who is your help, And the Magnificent One of the firmament, 
33:27: And the Protection of the rule of God, And who is under the strength of the everlasting arms. He will cast out the enemy from before your face, Saying, ‘Destroy.’ 
33:28: Then Israel shall dwell in hope, Alone in the land of Jacob, With grain and wine; And heaven is cloudy with dew for him. 
33:29: Blessed are you, O Israel. Who is like you, a people saved by the Lord. Your Helper will defend you as with a shield; And the sword shall be your boast. Your enemies shall speak falsely to you, And you shall tread on their neck.”

