23:1: “A man shall not take his father’s wife, nor uncover what is covered of his father’s. 
23:2: “The eunuch and the castrated man shall not enter the assembly of the Lord. 
23:3: The child of a prostitute shall not enter the assembly of the Lord. 
23:4: “An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter the assembly of the Lord; even to the tenth generation none of his descendants shall enter the assembly of the Lord forever, 
23:5: because they did not meet you with bread and water when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor from Mesopotamia to curse you. 
23:6: Nevertheless, the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam, but the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loved you. 
23:7: You shall not address them with peaceful words and good wishes all your days forever. 
23:8: You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you were an alien in his land. 
23:9: The sons of the third generation born to them may enter the assembly of the Lord. 
23:10: “If you should go out to encamp against your enemies, then keep yourself from every evil thing. 
23:11: If there should be any man among you who is not clean from a flow in the night, then he shall go outside the camp; he shall not come inside the camp. 
23:12: But it shall be, when evening comes, he shall wash his body with water; and when the sun sets, he may come into the camp. 
23:13: Also there shall be a place outside the camp, and you shall defecate there; 
23:14: and you shall have a spike on your belt, and when you defecate outside, you shall dig with it and turn and cover your excrement. 
23:15: For the Lord your God walks about in the midst of your camp to save you and to deliver up your enemy to you; therefore, your camp shall be holy, and no shameful matter shall be seen among you, and He turn away from you. 
23:16: “You shall not deliver to his lord the slave who fled from his lord to you. 
23:17: He may dwell with you in the very place pleasing to him; you shall not afflict him. 
23:18: There shall be no female prostitute among the daughters of Israel, or a male prostitute among the sons of Israel; there shall be no female temple prostitute among the daughters of Israel, and there shall be no male temple prostitute among the sons of Israel. 
23:19: You shall not bring the wages of a prostitute or the price of a dog into the house of the Lord your God for any vowed offering, for both are an abomination to the Lord your God. 
23:20: “You shall not charge interest to your brother—interest on money or food or anything you lend out. 
23:21: You may charge interest to a foreigner, but you shall not charge interest to your brother, that the Lord your God may bless you in all your works in the land you are entering to inherit. 
23:22: “If you should make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay to pay it; for the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and it would be sin to you. 
23:23: But if you should abstain from vowing, it is not a sin to you. 
23:24: That which proceeds from your lips you shall keep and do in the manner you vowed your gift to the Lord your God; that which you spoke with your mouth. 
23:25: “If you enter into your neighbor’s standing grain, you may pluck the heads with your hands, but you shall not use a sickle on your neighbor’s standing grain. 
23:26: Now if you enter into your neighbor’s vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes at your pleasure, but you shall not put any in your container.

