13:1: “Every word I command you today, be careful to observe; you shall not add to it nor take away from it. 
13:2: “If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you, and he gives you a sign or a wonder today, 
13:3: and the sign or the wonder he spoke to you comes to pass, saying, ‘Let us go and serve other gods’ you have not known, 
13:4: you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or dreamer of dreams; for the Lord your God is testing you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
13:5: You shall walk after the Lord your God and fear Him, and keep His commandments and obey His voice; you shall hold fast to Him. 
13:6: But that prophet or dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has spoken to lead you astray from the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from bondage, to entice you from the way the Lord your God commanded you to walk. So you shall put away the evil from your midst. 
13:7: “If your brother, the son of your father or mother, your son or your daughter, the wife of your bosom, or your friend who is as your own soul secretly entices you, saying, ‘Let us go and serve different gods’ you have not known, neither you nor your fathers, 
13:8: of the gods of the nations around you, near to you or far off from you, from one end of the earth to the other end of the earth, 
13:9: you shall not consent to him nor listen to him, nor shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him or conceal him; 
13:10: but you shall make a report about him; your hands shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hands of all the people. 
13:11: So they shall stone him with stones until he dies, because he sought to turn you away from the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. 
13:12: So all Israel will hear and fear, and not again continue to do according to the word of this evil among you. 
13:13: “If you hear someone in one of your cities the Lord your God gives you to dwell in saying, 
13:14: ‘Lawless men have gone out from among you and enticed the inhabitants of their city, saying, “Let us go and serve different gods” ’ you have not known, 
13:15: then you shall inquire and search diligently. So if the report is indeed true and certain that this abomination was committed among you, 
13:16: you shall surely strike all the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying it and everything therein. 
13:17: You shall gather all its plunder into the middle of the street, and completely burn the city and all its plunder with fire before the Lord your God. It shall be uninhabited forever; it shall never be built again. 
13:18: Thus none of the accursed things shall remain in your hand, so the Lord may turn from the fierceness of His anger and show you mercy, and have compassion on you and multiply you in the manner the Lord swore to your fathers, 
13:19: if you listen to the voice of the Lord your God to keep all His commandments I command you today, to do what is good and pleasing before the Lord your God.

