25:1: “Now if there should be a dispute between men, and they come to judgment, and they judge and justify the one in the right but condemn the impious one, 
25:2: then it shall be, if the impious man should deserve to be beaten, you shall set him before the judges, and one shall beat him before them, according to his impiety, with a certain number of blows. 
25:3: Forty blows he may give him and no more, lest he should exceed this and beat him with many blows above these, and your brother be disgraced before you. 
25:4: “You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. 
25:5: “If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family; her husband’s brother shall go in to her, take her as his wife, and dwell with her. 
25:6: Then it shall be, the firstborn son she bears shall be named by the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. 
25:7: But if the man does not want to take his brother’s wife, then let his brother’s wife go up to the gate to the elders, and say, ‘My husband’s brother does not want to raise up the name of his brother in Israel; my husband’s brother did not wish to do so.’ 
25:8: Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. But if he stands firm and says, ‘I do not want to take her,’ 
25:9: then his brother’s wife shall come before the elders, remove his brother’s sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and answer and say, ‘So they shall do to the man who will not build up his brother’s house.’ 
25:10: And his name shall be called in Israel, ‘The house of him who had his sandal removed.’ 
25:11: “If two men fight together, a man with his brother, and the wife of one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of the one attacking him and puts out her hand and seizes him by the genitals, 
25:12: then you shall cut off her hand; your eye shall not pity her. 
25:13: “You shall not have in your bag differing weights, a heavy and a light. 
25:14: You shall not have in your house differing measures, a large and a small. 
25:15: You shall have a true and just weight and a true and just measure, that your days may be lengthened in the land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. 
25:16: For all who do such things, all who behave unjustly, are an abomination to the Lord your God. 
25:17: “Remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you were coming out of Egypt, 
25:18: how he met you on the way and cut off your rear guard, all the stragglers at your rear, when you were tired and weary; and he did not fear God. 
25:19: Therefore it shall be, when the Lord your God gives you rest from your enemies all around in the land the Lord your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, you will blot out the name of Amalek from under heaven. You shall not forget.

