30:1: “Now it shall be, when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I set before you, and you will reflect in your heart among all the nations where the Lord your God scatters you, 
30:2: and you return to the Lord your God and obey His voice from your whole heart and from your whole soul, according to all I command you today, 
30:3: that the Lord will heal your sins, have mercy on you, and gather you again from all the nations where the Lord your God scattered you. 
30:4: If any of you are scattered from one end of heaven to the other end, from there the Lord your God will gather you, and from there the your God will bring you. 
30:5: Then the Lord your God will bring you to the land your fathers inherited, and you shall have it as an inheritance. He will prosper and multiply you more than your fathers. 
30:6: The Lord your God will purify your heart and the heart of your seed to love the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul, that you may live. 
30:7: “Also the Lord your God will put all these curses on your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecuted you. 
30:8: As for you, you will once again obey the voice of the Lord your and do His commandments, whatever I command you today. 
30:9: The Lord your God will take great care of you in all the work of your hands, in the offspring of your womb, in the produce of your land, and in the offspring of your cattle. For the Lord will again rejoice over you for good, as He rejoiced over your fathers, 
30:10: if you obey the voice of the Lord your God to keep and do all His commandments, ordinances, and judgments written in this book of the law, and if you return to the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul. 
30:11: “For this commandment I command you today is not too burdensome for you, nor is it far off. 
30:12: It is not in heaven above, that you should say, ‘Who will ascend into heaven for us and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it?’ 
30:13: Nor is it beyond the sea, that you should say, ‘Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it?’ 
30:14: But the word is very near you, in your mouth, in your heart, and in your hands, that you may do. 
30:15: “See, I set before you today life and death, good and evil. 
30:16: If you hear the commandments of the Lord your God I command you today, to love the Lord your God, to walk in His ways, and to keep His ordinances and judgments, then you shall live and multiply; and the Lord your God will bless you in the land you go to inherit. 
30:17: But if your heart turns away and you do not hear, but go astray and worship different gods and serve them, 
30:18: I announce to you today, you shall surely perish; you shall not prolong your days in the land the Lord your God is giving you, into which you are crossing over the Jordan to inherit. 
30:19: I call heaven and earth as witnesses today against you: I set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life, that both you and your seed may live 
30:20: and love the Lord your God, obey His voice, and cling to Him. For this is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell in the land the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give them.”

