3:1: “Then we turned and went up the road to Bashan; and Og king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei. 
3:2: And the Lord said to me, ‘Do not fear him, for I delivered him and all his people and all his land into your hands; you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.’ 
3:3: So the Lord our God delivered Og king of Bashan into our hands and all his people, and we struck him until none of his seed remained. 
3:4: Also at that time we conquered all his cities; there was not a city we did not take from them: sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
3:5: All these cities were fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides a great many cities of the Perizzites. 
3:6: We utterly destroyed them, as we did Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every city, one after the other, and the women and children. 
3:7: But all the cattle and spoil of the cities we took as booty for ourselves. 
3:8: “At that time we also took the land from the hands of the two kings of the Amorites beyond the Jordan, from the Arnon River to Mount Hermon 
3:9: (the Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorite calls it Senir); 
3:10: all the cities of the plain, all Gilead, and all Bashan, as far as Salcah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
3:11: For only Og king of Bashan remained of the Rephaim. Indeed his bedstead was an iron bedstead. Behold, it is in the citadel of the sons of Ammon. Nine cubits is its length and four cubits its width, measured by the forearm of a man. 
3:12: “So we inherited this land at that time, from Aroer, by the Arnon River, and half the mountain of Gilead; and I gave his cities to Reuben and Gad. 
3:13: The rest of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to half the tribe of Manasseh. (All the region of Argob, all that Bashan, will be reckoned as the land of the Rephaim. 
3:14: Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, as far as the borders of the Geshurites and the Maachathites, and called Bashan after his own name, Havoth Jair, to this day.) 
3:15: “Also I gave Gilead to Machir. 
3:16: Now to Reuben and Gad I gave from Gilead as far as the Arnon River, the middle of the river as the border, and as far as the Jabbok River, the border of the sons of Ammon; 
3:17: and the Arabah and the Jordan are the border stretching from Machanarath down to the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, to Pisgah in the east. 
3:18: “Then I commanded you at that time, saying, ‘The Lord your God gave you this land as an inheritance. All you men of valor shall cross over armed before your brethren, the sons of Israel. 
3:19: But your wives, your children, and your cattle (I know you have much cattle) will stay in the cities I gave you, 
3:20: until the Lord your God gives rest to your brethren as to you, and they also inherit the land the Lord our God is giving them beyond the Jordan. Then each may return to the inheritance I gave you.’ 
3:21: “Then I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, ‘Your eyes saw all the Lord our God did to these two kings; so will the Lord our God do to all the kingdoms through which you pass. 
3:22: You must not fear them, for the Lord our God Himself fights for you.’ 
3:23: Then I pleaded with the Lord at that time, saying, 
3:24: ‘O Lord, O Lord, You have begun to show Your servant Your strength and power and Your mighty hand and outstretched arm, for what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do anything like Your works and Your mighty deeds? 
3:25: Let me cross over and see this good land, this good mountain, and Antilebanon.’ 
3:26: “But the Lord disregarded me on your account, and would not listen to me. So the Lord said to me, ‘Enough of that. Speak no more to Me of this matter. 
3:27: Go up to the top of the stony mountain and lift your eyes toward the sea, the north wind, the south wind, and the sunrise; behold it with your eyes, for you will not cross over this Jordan. 
3:28: But command Joshua, strengthen him and encourage him; for he will go over before this people, and he will cause them to inherit the land you see.’ 
3:29: So we stayed in the valley opposite Beth Peor.

