27:1: Now Moses with the elders of Israel ordered the people, saying, “Keep all these commandments I command you today. 
27:2: Then it shall be, on the day you cross over the Jordan to the land the Lord your God gives you, you shall set up for yourselves large stones and plaster them with lime. 
27:3: You shall write on the stones all the words of this law when you cross over the Jordan, at the time you enter the land the Lord God of your fathers is giving you, ‘a land flowing with milk and honey,’ in the manner the Lord God of your fathers told you. 
27:4: Therefore it shall be, when you cross over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones on Mount Ebal, which I command you today, and you shall plaster them with lime. 
27:5: Now there you shall build an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones; you shall not use an iron tool on them. 
27:6: You shall build with whole stones the altar of the Lord your God, and offer whole burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. 
27:7: You shall sacrifice peace offerings there, and shall eat and be filled and rejoice before the Lord your God. 
27:8: Then you shall write very plainly on the stones all the words of this law.” 
27:9: Then Moses and the priests, the Levites, spoke to all Israel, saying, “Be silent and listen, O Israel: This day you became the people of the Lord your God. 
27:10: Therefore you shall obey the voice of the Lord your God, and do all His commandments and ordinances I command you today.” 
27:11: Then Moses commanded the people on that day, saying, 
27:12: “These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people when you cross over the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin; 
27:13: and these shall stand on Mount Ebal to curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 
27:14: Then the Levites shall speak with a loud voice and say to all Israel: 
27:15: ‘Cursed is the man who makes a carved or molten image, an abomination to the Lord, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret.’ Then all the people shall answer and say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:16: ‘Cursed is he who dishonors his father or mother.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:17: ‘Cursed is he who changes his neighbor’s boundaries.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:18: ‘Cursed is he who makes the blind wander on a road.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:19: ‘Cursed is he who perverts the judgment of a resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:20: ‘Cursed is he who lies with his father’s wife, because he uncovered what is covered of his father’s.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:21: ‘Cursed is he who lies with any cattle.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:22: ‘Cursed is he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:23: ‘Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ ‘Cursed is he who lies with the sister of his wife.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:24: ‘Cursed is he who strikes his neighbor deceitfully.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:25: ‘Cursed is he who takes a bribe to slay the innocent blood of a soul.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’ 
27:26: ‘Cursed is every man who does not abide in all the words of this law to do them.’ Then all the people shall say, ‘Amen!’

