6:1: “Now these are the commandments, the ordinances, and the judgments the Lord our God commanded to teach you, that you may do them in the land you are crossing over to inherit, 
6:2: and may fear the Lord your God, to keep all His ordinances and commandments I command you today, you and your sons and the sons of your sons, all the days of your life, so your days may be prolonged. 
6:3: Therefore hear, O Israel, and be careful to do it, that it may be well with you, and you may multiply greatly as the Lord God of your fathers told you—‘to give you a land flowing with milk and honey.’ ” 
6:4: These are the ordinances and the judgments the Lord commanded the children of Israel in the desert, when they came from the land of Egypt: “Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. 
6:5: You shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart, from your whole soul, and from your whole power. 
6:6: So these words I command you today shall be in your heart and in your soul. 
6:7: You shall teach them to your sons, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. 
6:8: You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and it shall be immovable before your eyes; 
6:9: and you shall write them on the doorposts of your houses and on your gates. 
6:10: “So it shall be, when the Lord your God brings you into the land He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you large and beautiful cities you did not build, 
6:11: and houses full of all good things you did not fill, and hewn-out wells you did not dig, and vineyards and olive groves you did not plant—and when you have eaten and are full—
6:12: then beware, lest you forget the Lord who brings you from the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
6:13: You shall fear the Lord your God and serve Him, and you shall cling to Him and take oaths in His name. 
6:14: You shall not go after different gods, the gods of the nations around you, 
6:15: because the Lord your God is a jealous God among you, lest the anger of the Lord your God be aroused against you and destroy you from the face of the earth. 
6:16: “You shall not tempt the Lord your God, as you tempted Him in the Temptation. 
6:17: You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God, His testimonies, and the ordinances He commanded you. 
6:18: So you shall do what is pleasing and good before the Lord your God, that it may be well with you, and you may go in and inherit the good land the Lord swore to your fathers, 
6:19: to chase out all your enemies from before your face, as He said. 
6:20: “Then it shall be when your son asks you tomorrow, saying, ‘What are the testimonies, the ordinances, and the judgments the Lord our God commanded you?’ 
6:21: you shall say to your son, ‘We were servants of Pharaoh in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm; 
6:22: and the Lord set great and evil signs affecting Egypt, Pharaoh, and his house before us. 
6:23: Then He brought us out from there, that He might bring us in to give us this land He swore to give our fathers. 
6:24: So the Lord commanded us to do all these ordinances, to fear the Lord our God, that it may be well with us all our days, and we may live as today. 
6:25: Then we shall have mercy, if we are careful to do all these commandments before the Lord our God, as the Lord commanded us.’

