22:1: “When you see your brother’s young bull or his sheep wandering on the road, you should not ignore them; you shall certainly return them to your brother and restore them to him. 
22:2: But if your brother is not near you, or if you do not know him, then you shall bring them to your own house, and they shall remain with you until your brother seeks them; then you shall restore them to him. 
22:3: You shall do the same with his donkey, or with his garment, or with any lost thing of your brother’s which he lost and you found; you should not ignore them. 
22:4: You shall not see your brother’s donkey or his young bull fall down on the road, and ignore them; you shall surely help him lift them up again. 
22:5: “A woman shall not wear a man’s clothing, nor shall a man put on a woman’s garment, for all who do so are an abomination to the Lord your God. 
22:6: “If a bird’s nest happens to be before you along the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, with the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young; 
22:7: you shall surely let the mother go and take the young for yourself, that it may be well with you and you prolong your days. 
22:8: “If you should build a new house, then you shall make a railing for your house, that you may not be guilty of manslaughter in your own house, if anyone happen to fall from it. 
22:9: “You shall not sow your vineyard with different kinds of seed, lest the yield and the seed you sow and the fruit of your vineyard become unholy. 
22:10: You shall not plow with a young bull and a donkey together. 
22:11: You shall not wear a garment of different sorts, such as wool and linen mixed together. 
22:12: “You shall make tassels on the corners of the clothing with which you cover yourself. 
22:13: “If any man takes a wife and dwells with her, and hates her, 
22:14: and lays reproachful words upon her, and brings a bad name on her, and says, ‘I took this woman, and when I came to her, I found she was not a virgin,’ 
22:15: then the father and mother of the young woman shall take and bring out the evidence of the young woman’s virginity to the elders at the gate. 
22:16: So the young woman’s father shall say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man as wife, and he hates her. 
22:17: Now he is laying reproachful words upon her, saying, “I found your daughter was not a virgin,” and yet these are the evidences of my daughter’s virginity.’ And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. 
22:18: Then the elders of that city shall take that man and discipline him; 
22:19: and they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver and give them to the father of the young woman, because he brought a bad name on a virgin of Israel; and she shall be his wife; he cannot divorce her all his days. 
22:20: But if his word is true, and evidences of virginity are not found for the young woman, 
22:21: then they shall bring out the young woman to the doors of her father’s house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones, and she shall die, because she did a foolish thing among the children of Israel, to commit fornication in her father’s house. So you shall put away the evil from among you. 
22:22: “If a man is found lying with a married woman, then you shall kill both of them—the man that lay with the woman and the woman; so you shall put away the evil from Israel. 
22:23: “If a young woman who is a virgin is betrothed to a husband, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her, 
22:24: then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones, the young woman because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he humbled his neighbor’s wife; so you shall put away the evil from among you. 
22:25: But if a man finds a betrothed young woman in the countryside, and the man forces her and lies with her, then you shall kill only the man who lay with her. 
22:26: But you shall do nothing to the young woman; there is in the young woman no sin deserving of death; for just as when a man rises against his neighbor and murders him, even so is this matter. 
22:27: For he found her in the countryside, and the betrothed young woman cried out, but there was no one to come to her aid. 
22:28: “If a man finds a young woman who is a virgin who is not betrothed, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are found out, 
22:29: then the man who lay with her shall give to the young woman’s father fifty silver two-drachma coins, and she shall be his wife, because he humbled her; he shall not be permitted to divorce her all his days.

