14:1: “You are the children of the Lord your God; you shall not engage in purificatory rites, nor shave your head between your eyes for the dead. 
14:2: For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, and the Lord chose you to be a people for Himself, a special people above all the nations on the face of the earth. 
14:3: “You shall not eat any abomination. 
14:4: These are the cattle you may eat: the young bull of the oxen, the male lamb of the sheep, and the young male of the goats; 
14:5: and you may also eat the deer, the gazelle, the antelope, the wild goat, the mountain goat, the gazelle, and the mountain sheep. 
14:6: You may also eat every animal with cloven hooves, having the hoof split into two parts, and that chews the cud among the animals. 
14:7: Nevertheless, of those that chew the cud or have cloven hooves, you shall not eat such as these: the camel, the hare, and the rabbit; for they chew the cud but do not have cloven hooves; they are unclean for you. 
14:8: Also the swine is unclean for you, because it has cloven hooves, yet does not chew the cud; you shall not eat their flesh or touch their dead carcasses. 
14:9: “These you may eat of all in the waters: you may eat all that have fins and scales. 
14:10: But whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean for you. 
14:11: All clean birds you may eat. 
14:12: But these you shall not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the buzzard, 
14:13: the red kite, the falcon, and the kite after their kinds; 
14:14: every raven after its kind; 
14:15: the ostrich, the short-eared owl, the seagull, and the hawk after their kinds; 
14:16: the heron, the swan, and the ibis; 
14:17: the cormorant, the hawk, the hoopoe, and the owl; 
14:18: the pelican, the plover after their kind, and the purple coot and the bat. 
14:19: Also every creeping thing that flies is unclean for you; they shall not be eaten. 
14:20: You may eat all clean birds. 
14:21: You shall not eat anything that dies of itself; you may give it to the alien in your cities that he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner; for you are a holy people to the Lord your God. You shall not boil a lamb in its mother’s milk. 
14:22: “You shall tithe all the increase of your grain the field produces year by year. 
14:23: You shall eat before the Lord your God in the place He chooses to have His name called upon there; you will bring in the tithe of your grain, wine, and olive oil, of the firstborn of your oxen and sheep, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God all your days. 
14:24: But if the journey is too long for you, so you are not able to carry the tithe, or if the place the Lord your God chooses to put His name is too far from you, when the Lord your God has blessed you, 
14:25: then you shall exchange it for money, take the money in your hands, and go to the place the Lord your God chooses. 
14:26: Then you shall spend that money for whatever your soul desires; for oxen or sheep, for wine or strong drink, for whatever your soul desires; you shall eat there before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your household, 
14:27: and the Levite who is within your cities, for he has no part or inheritance with you. 
14:28: “At the end of every third year you shall bring out the tithe of your produce. 
14:29: Then the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the resident alien and the fatherless and the widow who are within your cities may come and eat and be satisfied, so the Lord your God may bless you in all the works you do.

