11:1: “Therefore, you shall love the Lord your God, and always keep His commandments, His ordinances, and His judgments. 
11:2: Know today, I do not speak with your children, who have not known and seen the chastening of the Lord your God, nor His greatness and mighty hand and outstretched arm—
11:3: the signs and wonders He did in the midst of Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to all his land; 
11:4: what He did to the army of Egypt, to their horse and chariots; how He made the water of the Red Sea overflow them as they pursued you, and how the Lord destroyed them to this day; 
11:5: what He did for you in the desert until you came to this place; 
11:6: and what He did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up in the midst of Israel, along with their households, tents, and all the substance in their possession—
11:7: but your eyes saw all the great works the Lord did for you today. 
11:8: “Therefore, you shall keep all His commandments I command you today, that you may live and increase and go in and inherit the land you are crossing the Jordan to inherit, 
11:9: and may prolong your days in the land the Lord swore to give your fathers, to them and their seed after them, ‘a land flowing with milk and honey.’ 
11:10: For the land you go to inherit is not like the land of Egypt from which you came, where you sowed your seed and watered it by foot, as a vegetable garden; 
11:11: but the land you are crossing over to inherit is a land of hills and plains, which drinks water from the rain of heaven, 
11:12: a land the Lord your God looks upon; the eyes of the Lord your God are always on it, from the beginning of the year to the very end of the year. 
11:13: “So if you earnestly obey all His commandments I command you today, to love the Lord your God and serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul, 
11:14: then He will give you rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, wine, and olive oil. 
11:15: I will also send grass in your fields for your cattle, that you may eat and be filled. 
11:16: Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you transgress and serve other gods and worship them, 
11:17: lest the Lord’s anger be aroused against you and He shut up heaven, so there may be no rain, and the land yield no produce, and you perish quickly from the good land the Lord gave you. 
11:18: “Therefore, you shall lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul, and bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be immovable before your eyes. 
11:19: You shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house and walk by the way, when you lie down and rise up. 
11:20: You shall also write them on the doorposts of your house and your gates, 
11:21: that your days and the days of your sons may be multiplied in the land the Lord swore to give your fathers, like days of heaven on earth. 
11:22: For if you carefully keep all these commandments I command you today—to love the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, and to hold fast to Him—
11:23: then the Lord will cast out all these nations from before your face, and you will inherit greater and mightier nations than yourselves. 
11:24: Every place the sole of your foot treads shall be yours: from the desert and Antilebanon, and from the great Euphrates River, even to the Western Sea, shall be your territory. 
11:25: No man shall be able to stand against your face; the Lord your God will put the dread and the fear of you upon all the land where you tread, in the manner the Lord said to you. 
11:26: “Behold, I set before you today a blessing and a curse: 
11:27: the blessing, if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God I command you today; 
11:28: and the curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but go astray from the way I command you today, to go after different gods you have not known. 
11:29: Now it shall be, when the Lord your God brings you into the land you are to inherit, you shall put the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal. 
11:30: Indeed are they not on the other side of the Jordan, toward the setting sun, in the land of Canaan, the area that lies to the west near Gilgal, beside the lofty oak? 
11:31: For you will cross over the Jordan and go in to inherit the land the Lord your God is giving you; and you will inherit it all your days and dwell in it. 
11:32: Therefore, you shall be careful to do all the ordinances and judgments I set before you today.

