10:1: “At that time the Lord said to me, ‘Hew for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to Me on the mountain, and make yourself an ark of wood. 
10:2: And I will write on these tablets the words of the first tablets you broke; and you shall put them in the ark.’ 
10:3: So I made an ark of wood not liable to decay, and hewed two tablets of stone like the first, and went up the mountain, with the two tablets in my hands. 
10:4: Then He wrote the Ten Commandments on the tablets according to the first writing which the Lord spoke to you in the mountain, from the midst of the fire; and the Lord gave them to me. 
10:5: Then I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark I made; and they were there, as the Lord commanded me.” 
10:6: (Now the children of Israel journeyed from the wells of Bene Jaakan to Moserah, where Aaron died and was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered as priest in his stead. 
10:7: From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land with rivers of water. 
10:8: At that time, the Lord separated the tribe of Levi to bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord, to minister to Him, and to bless in His name, to this day. 
10:9: Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brethren; the Lord is his inheritance, as He said to him.) 
10:10: “I stayed in the mountain forty days and forty nights; the Lord also heard me at that time, and the Lord chose not to destroy you. 
10:11: Then the Lord said to me, ‘Go, and lead this people, so they may go in and inherit the land I swore to their fathers to give them.’ 
10:12: “So now, O Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, to love Him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, 
10:13: and to keep the commandments of the Lord your God and His ordinances I command you today for your good? 
10:14: Indeed, heaven and heaven of heaven belong to the Lord your God, also the earth and everything in it. 
10:15: The Lord chose your fathers to love them; and He chose their seed after them, you above all nations, as it is this day. 
10:16: Therefore circumcise the foreskin of your heart, and do not be stiff-necked any longer. 
10:17: For the Lord your God is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality nor takes a bribe. 
10:18: He administers justice for the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, and loves the resident alien, giving him food and clothing. 
10:19: Therefore, love the resident aliens, for you were resident aliens in the land of Egypt. 
10:20: You shall fear the Lord your God; you shall serve Him, and hold fast to Him, and take oaths in His name. 
10:21: He is your boast and your God, who did these great and glorious things for you, the things you saw with your own eyes. 
10:22: Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy-five souls, and now, the Lord your God made you as the stars of heaven in multitude.

