24:1: “If a man takes a wife and marries her, and it should be she finds no favor before him, because he found something shameful in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hands, and sends her out of his house, 
24:2: and she departs from his house and marries a different man, 
24:3: and the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce, and puts it in her hands, and sends her out of his house, or the latter man dies who took her as his wife, 
24:4: then her former husband who divorced her cannot take her back to be his wife after she was defiled; because that is an abomination before the Lord your God; and you shall not defile the land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. 
24:5: “If a man should take a new wife, he shall not go out to war or be charged with any business; he shall be free at home one year and bring happiness to his wife whom he took. 
24:6: “No man shall take the lower or the upper millstone in pledge, for he takes one’s living in pledge. 
24:7: “If a man should kidnap any of his brethren of the sons of Israel and mistreats him or sells him, then that kidnapper shall die; and you shall put away the evil from among you. 
24:8: “Take heed to yourself in an outbreak of leprosy that you carefully keep and do according to all the law, whatever the priests and Levites may proclaim to you, in the manner I commanded them; so you shall keep and do. 
24:9: Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam on the way when you proceeded out of Egypt. 
24:10: “If you should lend your neighbor anything, you shall not enter his house to get his pledge. 
24:11: You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you lend shall bring the pledge out to you. 
24:12: Now if the man is poor, you shall not keep his pledge overnight. 
24:13: You shall return the pledge to him again when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his own garment and bless you; and it shall be for you an alms before the Lord your God. 
24:14: “You shall not withhold wrongfully the wage of the poor and needy, whether one of your brethren or one of the resident aliens in your cities. 
24:15: Each day you shall pay him his wage and not let the sun go down on it, for he is poor and has set his hope on it; lest he cry out against you to the Lord, and it be sin to you. 
24:16: “Fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor shall sons be put to death for their fathers; each shall be put to death for his own sin. 
24:17: “You shall not pervert judgment due the stranger and the fatherless and the widow, nor take a widow’s garment as a pledge. 
24:18: But you shall remember you were a servant in Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you from there; therefore, I command you to do this thing. 
24:19: “If you should reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it; it shall be for the poor and the resident alien and the fatherless and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the works of your hands. 
24:20: If you pick olives, you shall not go back to glean what you left behind you; it shall be for the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow; and remember, you were a servant in Egypt; therefore, I command you to do this. 
24:21: Now if you should gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it afterward; it shall be for the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow. 
24:22: So remember, you were a servant in the land of Egypt; therefore, I command you to do this thing.

