16:1: “Observe the month of new corn, and keep Pascha to the Lord your God, for in the month of new corn He brought you out of Egypt by night. 
16:2: Therefore you shall sacrifice Pascha to the Lord your God from the sheep and oxen, in the place the Lord chooses for His name to be called upon there. 
16:3: You shall eat no leavened bread with it; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread with it, that is, the bread of affliction (for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste), that you may remember the day you came out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life. 
16:4: And no leaven shall be seen among you in all your borders for seven days, nor shall any of the meat you sacrifice the first day at twilight remain until morning. 
16:5: You may not sacrifice Pascha within any of your cities the Lord your God gives you; 
16:6: but at the place the Lord your God chooses for His name to be called upon there, there you shall sacrifice Pascha at twilight, at the going down of the sun, at the time you came out of Egypt. 
16:7: You shall roast and eat it in the place the Lord your God chooses, and in the morning you shall turn and go to your houses. 
16:8: Six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh and final day, there shall be a feast to the Lord your God. You shall do no work on it except what must be done for life. 
16:9: “You shall count seven complete weeks for yourself; begin to count the seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle to the grain. 
16:10: Then you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the Lord your God, and according to your ability you may offer whatever you wish, as the Lord your God blessed you. 
16:11: You shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and daughter, your male servant and female servant, the Levite who is within your cities, the resident alien and the fatherless and the widow who are among you, at the place where the Lord your God chooses for His name to be called upon there. 
16:12: And you shall remember you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these commandments. 
16:13: “You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles seven days, when you have gathered from your threshing floor and winepress. 
16:14: You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and daughter, your male servant and female servant, the Levite, the resident alien, the fatherless and the widow who are within your cities. 
16:15: Seven days you shall keep a feast to the Lord your God in the place the Lord your God chooses for Himself, and if the Lord your God should bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, you will be rejoicing. 
16:16: Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord your God in the place the Lord chooses; at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of Weeks, and at the Feast of Tabernacles; and they shall not appear before the Lord your God empty-handed. 
16:17: Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing the Lord your God gave you. 
16:18: “You shall appoint judges and teachers in all the cities the Lord your God gives you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. 
16:19: They shall not pervert judgment; they shall not show partiality, nor take a bribe; for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous. 
16:20: You shall pursue what is altogether just, that you may live and go in and inherit the land the Lord your God gives you. 
16:21: “You shall not plant for yourself any grove or any tree near the altar of the Lord your God which you build for yourself. 
16:22: You shall not set up a pillar the Lord your God hates.

