1:1: The Words of the Preacher, the son of David, King of Israel in Jerusalem. 
1:2: “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher; “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity!” 
1:3: What advantage does a man have in all his labor, In which he toils under the sun? 
1:4: A generation comes, and a generation goes, But the earth stands forever. 
1:5: The sun rises and the sun sets And returns to its place. 
1:6: The wind rises and goes toward the south, And swirls towards the north. The wind whirls in a circular motion, And returns full circle. 
1:7: All the rivers flow to the sea, Yet the sea shall not be filled. To the place where the rivers flow, There they return again. 
1:8: All words are wearisome, And a man will not be able to say them. Neither will the eye be satisfied with seeing, Nor will the ear be filled with hearing. 
1:9: What has been is what will be, And what has been done is what will be done. There is nothing new under the sun. 
1:10: Who will speak and say, “See, this is new?” For it has already been in the ages That have passed before us. 
1:11: There is no remembrance of former things, And indeed, there shall be no remembrance of later things, By the things that will come after that. 
1:12: I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem. 
1:13: I gave my heart to seek out, and to prepare myself in wisdom concerning all the things done under heaven; for God has given painful distraction to the sons of men, to be occupied therewith. 
1:14: I beheld all the works done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity, and is the choice of one’s spirit. 
1:15: That which has become crooked cannot be made straight, And what is lacking cannot be counted. 
1:16: I spoke in my heart saying, “Behold, I have become great, and have acquired wisdom beyond all before me in Jerusalem; and my heart has experienced much wisdom and knowledge.” 
1:17: I gave my heart to know wisdom and knowledge, to learn proverbs and understanding. And this, too, was waywardness of spirit. 
1:18: For in the abundance of wisdom, There is abundance of knowledge, And he who increases knowledge will increase suffering.

