12:1: Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, Before the difficult days come, And the years arrive when you say, “I have no will to face them”: 
12:2: While the sun and the light, The moon and the stars, Are not darkened, And the clouds do not return after the rain; 
12:3: In the day when the keepers of the house tremble, And the men of strength are led astray; When the women who grind the grain become idle, Because they are few; When the women who look out the windows Will remain in darkness; 
12:4: When the doors are shut in the marketplace, And the sound of grinding is low; When one rises up at the sound of a sparrow, And all the daughters of song are brought low. 
12:5: Also they will look from the height, And there are terrors in the way; When the almond tree blossoms, The grasshopper grows fat, And the caper plant is scattered. For man goes to his eternal home, And the mourners go about the marketplace. 
12:6: Remember your Creator until the silver cord is removed, And the golden flower is pressed together, And the pitcher is shattered at the fountain; And the wheel runs together at the well, 
12:7: Then the dust returns to the earth as it was, And the spirit returns to God who gave it. 
12:8: “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher, “All is vanity.” 
12:9: Because the Preacher was wise more than others, he taught the people knowledge; and the ear will search out his well-ordered proverbs. 
12:10: The Preacher sought diligently to find desirable words, and what was written is upright; they are words of truth. 
12:11: The words of the wise are like pointed sticks, like nails firmly fastened; they are given from the collections, and abound from them by one Shepherd. 
12:12: Moreover, my son, guard yourself, for there is no end to the making of many books, and much study is weariness of the flesh. 
12:13: Hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, And keep His commandments, For this is the whole man. 
12:14: For God will bring every work into judgment, Including everything that has been overlooked, Whether it be good or evil.

