10:1: Dead flies will corrupt the preparation of seasoned olive oil, And a little wisdom is more valuable Than the glory of great foolishness. 
10:2: A wise man’s heart is at his right hand, But the heart of a senseless man is at his left. 
10:3: When a senseless man also walks along the way, His heart will fail him, And everything he considers is foolishness. 
10:4: If the spirit of the ruler rises against you, Do not leave your place; For soothing puts an end to great sins. 
10:5: There is an evil I saw under the sun, When an offense proceeds from a ruler. 
10:6: The senseless man devotes himself to great heights, And rich men shall sit in a lowly place. 
10:7: I saw servants on horses, And princes walking on the ground like servants. 
10:8: He who digs a pit will fall into it, And he who pulls down a wall will be bitten by a serpent. 
10:9: He who removes stones will be worn out by them, And he who cuts down trees will be endangered by them. 
10:10: If the ax head falls off, then his countenance is troubled, And he will put forth more strength; And in that case skill is of no advantage to the man. 
10:11: If the serpent bites when it is not charmed, Then there is no advantage to the charmer. 
10:12: The words of a wise mouth are gracious, But the lips of a fool shall swallow him up. 
10:13: The words of his mouth begin with foolishness, And the end of his talk is evil madness. 
10:14: A senseless man multiplies words. No man knows what is to be; And who will tell him what will be after him? 
10:15: The labor of fools wears them out, For they do not even know how to go to the city! 
10:16: Woe to you, O city, whose king is young, And whose princes feast in the morning! 
10:17: Blessed are you, O land, When your king is the son of nobles, And your princes feast at the proper time in strength. They will not be dishonored. 
10:18: Because of laziness the roofing will be brought low, And through idleness of hands the house will leak. 
10:19: They make bread for laughter, And wine delights the living; But all will listen to money. 
10:20: Do not curse the king, even in your conscience; Do not curse the rich, even in your bedroom; For a bird of the air will carry your voice; And a bird in flight will tell the matter.

