5:1: Do not be hasty with your mouth, And do not let not your heart be quick To utter a word before God; For God is in heaven, and you are on earth; Therefore, let your words be few. 
5:2: For a dream comes in a multitude of distractions, And the voice of a senseless man iswith a multitude of words. 
5:3: When you make a vow to God do not delay to pay it, For His will is not in senseless men. So pay whatever you vowed. 
5:4: Better not to vow than to vow and not pay. 
5:5: Do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin, and do not say in the presence of God, “It was a mistake.” Why should God be angry at your voice, and destroy the work of your hands? 
5:6: For in a multitude of dreams, there are vanities and many words, but you should fear God. 
5:7: If you see the oppression of the poor, and the violation of judgment and righteousness in the land, do not marvel at the matter; for there is a high official to watch over a high official, and higher ones over them! 
5:8: Moreover, the abundance of the earth is for all: even a king depends on work in the field. 
5:9: He who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver; Nor he who loves the harvest, with its abundance. This also is vanity. 
5:10: In the abundance of good things, They who eat them also increase, But what virtue does the owner have from them, Except to see them with his eyes? 
5:11: The sleep of a servant is sweet, Whether he eats little or much; But the abundance of the rich will not permit him to sleep. 
5:12: There was a sickness I saw under the sun: Wealth kept for its owner to his hurt. 
5:13: That wealth shall perish in painful distraction, And he begets a son; But there is nothing in his hand. 
5:14: As he came from his mother’s womb, Naked shall he return, to go as he came; And he shall take nothing from his labor, That it may go with him in his hand. 
5:15: This also is a painful sickness, For as he came, so shall he go; And what is his gain, for which helabored for the wind? 
5:16: All his days are in darkness and sorrow, And in much anger, sickness, and gall. 
5:17: Behold, I have seen good: It is a fine thing for a man to experience goodness in all his labor in which he toils all the days of his life that God has given him; for it is his portion. 
5:18: As for every man to whom God has given wealth, possessions and authority—to eat from it, to receive his portion, and to rejoice in his labor—this is the gift of God. 
5:19: For he will not remember the many days of his life, because God distracted him in the merriment of his heart.

