3:1: To everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven: 
3:2: A time to give birth, And a time to die; A time to plant, And a time to pluck what is planted. 
3:3: A time to kill, And a time to heal; A time to pull down, And a time to build up. 
3:4: A time to weep, And a time to laugh; A time to mourn, And a time to dance. 
3:5: A time to throw stones, And a time to gather stones; A time to embrace, And a time to refrain from embracing. 
3:6: A time to seek, And a time to lose; A time to keep, And a time to throw away. 
3:7: A time to tear, And a time to sew; A time to keep silent, And a time to speak. 
3:8: A time to love, And a time to hate; A time of war, And a time of peace. 
3:9: What profit has the worker from all his labors? 
3:10: I have seen altogether the tasks which God has given to the sons of men, to be engaged in. 
3:11: He made everything beautiful in its time, and He indeed put eternity in their hearts, in such a way that man may not find out the work God made from the beginning to the end. 
3:12: I know there is nothing better for them than to rejoice and do good in their lives. Indeed, every man should eat and drink and experience the good in all his labor—this is God’s gift to him. 
3:14: I know that whatever things God does, They shall be forever. Nothing can be added to or taken away from these things, For God did them, that men wouldfear before Him. 
3:15: What is has already been, And what is to be has already been; And God will require an account of what is past. 
3:16: Moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment. The ungodly man was there. I also saw the place of the righteous man. The ungodly man was not there. 
3:17: I said in my heart, “God will judge both the righteous man and the ungodly man, For there is a time for every action and every work.” 
3:18: I said in my heart, “Concerning the speech of the sons of men, God will judge them, so as to show them that indeed, they are themselves like animals.” 
3:19: For what happens to the sons of men also happens to animals: one thing befalls them; as is the death of the one, so also is the death of the other, and there is one breath to all. So what advantage does a man have over an animal? For all things are vanity. 
3:20: All go to one place: all are from the dust, and all return to the dust. 
3:21: Who knows the spirit of the sons of men, whether it goes upward, and the spirit of the animal, whether it goes downward to the earth? 
3:22: So I saw that there was no good, except that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion. For who shall bring him to see what happens after him?

