4:1: Then I returned and saw all the oppressions done under the sun. Behold, the weeping of the oppressed! But they have no comforter. On the side of the oppressors was power, But they have no comforter. 
4:2: So I praised those who were already dead More than the living, As many as are alive until now. 
4:3: Better than both these is he who has not yet been born, Who has not seen all the evil work done under the sun. 
4:4: Again I saw all the labor and all the courage of the worker, that this is the zeal of a man because of his companion. This is also vanity and is the choice of one’s spirit. 
4:5: The senseless man folds his hands, And consumes his own flesh. 
4:6: Better is a handful of rest Than two handfuls of labor And it is the choiceof one’s spirit. 
4:7: Then I returned, and saw vanity under the sun: 
4:8: There is one, and there is not a second one, And he has neither son nor brother. And there is no end to all his labor, Neither is his eye satisfied with wealth. But he never asks, “For whom do I labor and deprive myself of goodness?” This also is vanity and a painful distraction. 
4:9: Two are better than one, Because they have a good reward for their labor. 
4:10: For if they fall, one will lift up his companion. But woe to him who is alone when he falls, For there is not a second one to help him up! 
4:11: If two lie down together, both stay warm, But how can one stay warm alone? 
4:12: If one is added strength, two will stand before him, And a threefold cord is not quickly broken. 
4:13: Better is a poor and wise youth Than an old and senseless king, Who will no longer take advice. 
4:14: For this youth shall come from thehouse of prisoners to reign, Even though in his kingdom he was born poor. 
4:15: I saw all the living who walk under the sun, And they were with the youth Who will be established in the king’s place. 
4:16: There was no end of all the people Over whom he was made king; Yet those who come afterward will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and is the choice of one’s spirit. 
4:17: Walk carefully when you go to the house of God. And draw near to hear, rather than to offer the sacrifice of senseless men; for they do not know that they do evil.

