26:1: “Now you shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine woven linen, with blue, purple, and scarlet fabric, and you shall weave them with artistic designs of cherubim. 
26:2: The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits. Each curtain shall have the same measurements. 
26:3: Five curtains shall be coupled to one another, and the other five curtains shall be coupled to one another. 
26:4: You shall make loops of blue yarn on the edge of the curtain of one set, and likewise you shall do on the outer edge of the other curtain of the second set. 
26:5: Fifty loops you shall make in the one curtain, and fifty loops you shall make on the edge of the curtain at the end of the second set, that the loops may be clasped to one another. 
26:6: You shall make fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains together with the clasps, that it may be one tabernacle. 
26:7: “You shall also make curtains of goats’ hair skins, to be a tent over the tabernacle. You shall make eleven such curtains. 
26:8: The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain four cubits; and the eleven curtains shall all have the same measurements. 
26:9: You shall couple five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves, and you shall double over the sixth curtain at the forefront of the tent. 
26:10: You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the outermost curtain in one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain of the second set. 
26:11: You shall make fifty bronze clasps, put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one. 
26:12: The remaining remnant of the tent’s curtains, that is, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle. 
26:13: A cubit on one side and a cubit on the other side, of the remaining length of the tent’s curtains, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and on that side, to cover it. 
26:14: You shall also make a covering of ram skins dyed red for the tent, and blue skins as coverings above that. 
26:15: “You shall make the tabernacle posts out of incorruptible wood. 
26:16: Ten cubits shall be the length of each post, and a cubit and a half its width. 
26:17: Two joints shall be made in each post for binding one to another. Thus you shall do for all the posts of the tabernacle. 
26:18: Thus you shall make the posts for the tabernacle, twenty for the north side. 
26:19: You shall make forty bases of silver for the twenty posts: two bases for each of the two joints of the post. 
26:20: For the second side of the tabernacle, the south side, there shall be twenty posts, 
26:21: and their forty bases of silver: two bases for each of the posts two joints. 
26:22: For the far side of the tabernacle, westward, you shall make six posts. 
26:23: You shall also make two posts for the two back corners of the tabernacle. 
26:24: They shall be coupled together at the bottom and at the top by one ring. Thus it shall be for both of them. They shall be equal. 
26:25: So there shall be eight posts with their sixteen bases of silver, two bases for both sides of each post. 
26:26: “You shall make bars of incorruptible wood: five for the posts on one side of the tabernacle, 
26:27: five bars for the posts on the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the posts of the side of the tabernacle, toward the sea. 
26:28: The middle bar shall pass through the midst of the posts from end to end. 
26:29: You shall overlay the posts with gold, make their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and overlay the bars with gold. 
26:30: Then you shall raise up the tabernacle according to its pattern shown you on the mountain. 
26:31: “You shall then make a veil woven of blue, purple, and scarlet fabric, and fine woven linen. It shall be woven with an artistic design of cherubim. 
26:32: You shall hang it upon the four posts of incorruptible wood overlaid with gold. Their hooks shall be gold, upon four bases of silver. 
26:33: You shall hang the veil on the posts. Then you shall bring the ark of the testimony in there, behind the veil. The veil shall be a divider for you between the holy place and the holy of holies. 
26:34: You shall put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony in the holy of holies. 
26:35: You shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand across from the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; and you shall put the table on the north side. 
26:36: “You shall make a screen for the door of the tabernacle, woven of blue, purple, and scarlet fabric, and fine woven linen, made by a weaver. 
26:37: You shall make five posts for the veil, and overlay them with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, and you shall cast five bases of bronze for them.

