39:1: Now all the gold used in all the production of the holy places was that of the offerings: twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and twenty shekels, according to the holy shekel. 
39:2: The offering of silver from the numbered men of the congregation was one hundred talents, and one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels (one drachma per head being a half shekel, according to the holy shekel) 
39:3: for everyone surveyed in the tally from twenty years old and up, to the number of six hundred and three thousand, five hundred and fifty. 
39:4: The hundred talents of silver were used to cast the one hundred capitals of the tabernacle, and the capitals of the veil; a hundred capitals to the hundred talents, a talent to a capital. 
39:5: Then from the one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the posts, gilded their capitals, and decorated them. 
39:6: The bronze from the offering was seventy talents, and a thousand five hundred shekels, 
39:7: and with it they made the bases for the doors of the tabernacle of testimony, 
39:8: the bases for the court all around, the bases for the court gate, the pegs for the tabernacle, the pegs for all around the court, 
39:9: the bronze appendage of the altar, all the vessels of the altar, and all the instruments of the tabernacle of testimony. 
39:10: So the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded; thus did they. 
39:11: Also of the gold that remained from the offering, they made vessels with which to minister before the Lord. 
39:12: The remaining blue, purple and scarlet cloth they made into liturgical vestments for Aaron, to minister in them in the holy place. 
39:13: So they brought to Moses the garments, the tabernacle and all its vessels, the bases and their bars, the posts, 
39:14: the ark of the covenant and its poles, 
39:15: the altar and all its vessels, the anointing oil, the incense compound, 
39:16: the pure lamp and its lamps (lamps for burning), the oil for light, 
39:17: the table of offertory and the bread set forth upon it and all its utensils, 
39:18: the garments of the holy place, which belong to Aaron and his sons for ministering as priests, 
39:19: the curtains of the court and their posts, the veil for the door of the tabernacle, the court gate, all the utensils for the tabernacle and all its instruments, 
39:20: the rams’ skins dyed red, the blue coverings and the other coverings, 
39:21: the pegs, and all the instruments for the work of the tabernacle of testimony. 
39:22: Whatever things the Lord commanded Moses, thus the children of Israel made and prepared in every respect. 
39:23: Then Moses looked over all the work, and it was done in the manner the Lord commanded Moses. They did it in this way, and Moses blessed them.

