27:1: “Now you shall make an altar of incorruptible wood, five cubits long and five cubits wide the altar shall be square and its height shall be three cubits. 
27:2: You shall make horns on its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it, and you shall overlay it with bronze. 
27:3: Also you shall make a crown around the altar; and its cover, its libation bowls, its flesh hooks, its incense bowl, and all its utensils you shall make of bronze. 
27:4: You shall make a grate for it, a network of bronze; and on the network you shall make four bronze rings at its four corners. 
27:5: You shall put them below under the grate of the altar, that the grate may be midway up the altar. 
27:6: You shall make poles for the altar of incorruptible wood, and overlay them with bronze. 
27:7: The poles shall be put in the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar to carry it. 
27:8: You shall make it hollow with boards; as it was shown you on the mountain, so shall you make it. 
27:9: “You shall also make a court for the tabernacle. For the west side there shall be hangings for the court made of fine woven linen, one hundred cubits long for one side. 
27:10: And its twenty posts and their twenty bases shall be bronze. The hooks of the posts and their bands shall be silver. 
27:11: Likewise along the east side shall be curtains one hundred cubits in length, with its twenty posts and their twenty bases of bronze, and the hooks of the posts and their bands of silver. 
27:12: And along the width of the court on the north side shall be curtains of fifty cubits, with their ten posts and ten bases. 
27:13: The width of the court on the south side shall be curtains of fifty cubits, with their ten posts and ten bases. 
27:14: The length of the curtains on one side shall be fifty cubits, with their three posts and three bases. 
27:15: On the other side shall be curtains of fifteen cubits, with their three posts and three bases. 
27:16: For the gate of the court there shall be a veil twenty cubits long, woven of blue, purple, and scarlet fabric, and fine woven linen, made by a weaver. It shall have four posts and four bases. 
27:17: All the posts around the court shall be overlaid with silver; their hooks shall be of silver and their bases of bronze. 
27:18: The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits on each side, the width fifty on each side, and the height five cubits, made of fine woven linen, and its bases of bronze. 
27:19: All the utensils, all the instruments, and all the pegs of the court, shall be of bronze. 
27:20: “You shall also command the children of Israel to bring you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, to cause the lamp to burn continually 
27:21: in the tabernacle of testimony, outside the veil before the testimony. Aaron and his sons shall tend it from evening until morning before the Lord. It shall be an ordinance forever to their generations on behalf of the children of Israel.

