21:1: “Now these are the ordinances you shall set before them: 
21:2: If you buy a Hebrew servant, he shall serve six years; and in the seventh he shall go out free and pay nothing. 
21:3: If he comes in by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. 
21:4: If his lord gave him a wife, and she bore him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her lord’s, and he shall go out by himself. 
21:5: But if the servant plainly says, ‘I love my lord, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,’ 
21:6: “then his lord shall bring him to the judgment seat of God, and also to the door, or to the doorpost, and his lord shall pierce his ear with an awl; and he shall serve him forever. 
21:7: “If a man sells his daughter to be a domestic, she shall not go out as the maidservants do. 
21:8: If she does not please her lord, who betrothed her to himself, he shall let her go free. But he has no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has dealt deceitfully with her. 
21:9: If he betrothed her to his son, he shall deal with her according to the right of daughters. 
21:10: But If he takes another wife, he shall not deprive her of necessities, clothing, and marriage rights. 
21:11: If he will not do these three things for her, she shall go out free, without paying money. 
21:12: “He who so strikes a man that he dies shall surely be put to death. 
21:13: However, if he did not willfully lie in wait, but God delivered him into his hands, I will appoint for you a place where the slayer may flee. 
21:14: But if a man acts with premeditation against his neighbor, to kill him by treachery, you shall take him from My altar, that he may die. 
21:15: He who strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. 
21:16: He who curses his father or mother shall surely be put to death. 
21:17: Whoever kidnaps one of the children of Israel and overcomes and sells him, and he is found with him, let him surely die. 
21:18: “If two men revile one another, and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist, and he does not die but is confined to his bed, 
21:19: if the man rises again and walks about outside with his staff, then he who struck him shall be acquitted. He shall only pay for his loss of time, and for his healing. 
21:20: If a man beats his male or female servant with a rod, and he dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished. 
21:21: Notwithstanding, if he remains alive a day or two, the lord shall not be punished; for he is his property. 
21:22: “If two men fight, and hurt a woman with child, and her child is born imperfectly formed, he shall surely be punished accordingly, as the woman’s husband imposes on him; and he shall pay as the judges determine. 
21:23: But if the child is perfectly formed, he shall give life for life, 
21:24: eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, 
21:25: burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. 
21:26: If a man strikes the eye of his male or female servant, and destroys it, he shall let them go free for their eye’s sake. 
21:27: If he knocks out the tooth of his male or female servant, he shall let them go free for their tooth’s sake. 
21:28: “If a bull gores a man or a woman to death, then the bull shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the bull shall be acquitted. 
21:29: But if the bull tended to gore in times past, and it was made known to its owner, but he did not keep it confined, and it killed a man or a woman, the bull shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death. 
21:30: But if a sum of money is imposed on him, then he shall pay the amount imposed, so as to redeem his life. 
21:31: If a bull gores a son or daughter, it shall be done to him according to this ordinance. 
21:32: If a bull gores a male or female servant, he shall pay their lord thirty shekels of silver, and the bull shall be stoned. 
21:33: “If a man opens a pit, or digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it, 
21:34: the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money to their owner, but the dead animal shall be his. 
21:35: If any man’s bull gores his neighbor’s bull, and it dies, they shall sell the live bull and divide the money; and the dead bull they shall also divide. 
21:36: But if the bull was known to gore in times past, and its owner did not keep it confined, he shall surely pay bull for bull, and the dead animal shall be his own. 
21:37: “Now if a man steals an ox or a sheep, and slaughters or sells it, he shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep.

