25:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
25:2: “Speak to the children of Israel, that they take first fruits from everyone who gives it willingly from the heart. Thus you shall take My first fruits. 
25:3: This is the offering you shall take from them: gold, silver, and bronze; 
25:4: blue, purple, and scarlet cloth, fine spun linen; and female goats’ hair, 
25:5: ram skins dyed red and skins dyed blue, and incorruptible wood; 
25:6: oil for the light, and incense for anointing oil and for the composition of incense; 
25:7: sardius stones, and stones for the carved work of the breastplate and the full length robe. 
25:8: Also, you shall make Me a sanctuary, and I will appear among you. 
25:9: According to all I show you, that is, the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its furnishings, so you shall make it. 
25:10: “Thus you shall make the ark of testimony from incorruptible wood; two and a half cubits shall be its length, a cubit and a half its width, and a cubit and a half its height. 
25:11: You shall overlay it with pure gold, inside and out you shall overlay it, and shall make on it a wreath of gold all around. 
25:12: You shall cast four golden rings for it, and put them on its four corners; two rings on one side, and two rings on the other. 
25:13: You shall make poles of incorruptible wood, and overlay them with gold. 
25:14: You shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, that the ark may be carried by them. 
25:15: The poles shall remain fixed in the rings of the ark. 
25:16: Then you shall put into the ark the testimonies I will give you. 
25:17: “You shall also make a mercy seat of pure gold; two and a half cubits shall be its length and a cubit and a half its width. 
25:18: Then you shall make two cherubim of gold; of hammered work you shall make them at the two ends of the mercy seat. 
25:19: Make one cherub at one end, and the other cherub at the other end; you shall make the cherubim at the two ends of it of one piece with the mercy seat. 
25:20: And the cherubim shall stretch out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, and they shall face one another; the faces of the cherubim shall be toward the mercy seat. 
25:21: You shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimonies I will give you. 
25:22: There I will make Myself known to you, and I will speak with you from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim, which are on the ark of testimony, about everything I will give you in commandment to the children of Israel. 
25:23: “You shall also make a golden table of pure gold; two cubits shall be its length, a cubit its width, and a cubit and a half its height. 
25:24: You shall make for it golden wreaths twisted all around, and also a crown of a handbreadth all around, 
25:25: and you shall make a twisted wreath of gold for the crown all around. 
25:26: You shall make four golden rings for it, and put the rings on the four corners of its four legs under the crown. 
25:27: The rings shall be bearings for the poles, so they may bear the table with them. 
25:28: And you shall make the poles of incorruptible wood, and overlay them with pure gold, that the table may be carried with them. 
25:29: You shall make its dishes, censers, bowls and cups of pure gold, that your may offer drink offerings with them; 
25:30: “and you shall set the bread on the table before Me continually. 
25:31: “You shall also make a lampstand of pure gold, which shall be of hammered work. Its shaft, branches, and bowls, and its stem and corolla shall be of one piece. 
25:32: Six branches shall come out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of one side, and three branches out of the other. 
25:33: Three bowls shall be made like almonds on each branch, with its ornamental knobs and lilies,—and so for the six branches that come out of the lampstand. 
25:34: On the lampstand itself four bowls shall be made like almonds, and each with its ornamental knob and lilies. 
25:35: There shall be a knob under the first two branches of the same, a knob under the second two branches of the same, and a knob under the third two branches of the same, according to the six branches that extend from the lampstand. 
25:36: Their knobs and their branches shall be of one piece; all of it shall be one hammered piece of pure gold. 
25:37: You shall make its seven lamps, and you will lay the lamps upon them. From this one presence they will shine outward. 
25:38: You shall make its funnels and dishes of pure gold. 
25:39: It shall be made of a talent of pure gold, with all these utensils. 
25:40: And see to it you make them according to the pattern shown you on the mountain.

