23:1: “Now you shall not circulate a false report. Do not agree with the wicked man to be an unrighteous witness. 
23:2: You shall not follow a crowd to do evil; nor join with them, so as to turn aside with the majority to pervert justice. 
23:3: You shall not show partiality to a poor man in his dispute. 
23:4: If you meet your enemy’s ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again. 
23:5: If you see your enemy’s donkey fallen beneath its load, you shall not walk away from it, but shall surely help him with it. 
23:6: You shall not pervert the judgment of your poor in his dispute. 
23:7: Keep yourself far from every unjust matter; do not kill the innocent and the righteous; and do not justify the wicked for his gifts. 
23:8: You shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes and corrupts just pronouncements. 
23:9: Also you shall not oppress a resident alien, for you know the heart of a resident alien, because you were resident aliens in the land of Egypt. 
23:10: “Six years you shall sow your land and gather in its produce, 
23:11: but in the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat; and what they leave, the beasts of the field may eat. In like manner you shall do with your vineyard and your olive grove. 
23:12: Six days you shall do your work, and on the seventh day you shall rest, that your ox and donkey may rest, and the son of your female servant and the stranger may be refreshed. 
23:13: “Now in everything I said to you, be circumspect and do not invoke the name of other gods, nor let it be heard from your mouth. 
23:14: Keep a feast to Me three times in the year: 
23:15: You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread (you shall eat unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month of new grains, for in it you came out of Egypt; none shall appear before Me empty); 
23:16: and the Feast of Harvest, the first fruits of your labors you sowed in the field; and the Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in the fruit of your labors from the field. 
23:17: Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the Lord your God. 
23:18: When I cast out the nations from before your face and expand your borders, you shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leavened bread; nor shall the fat of My sacrifice remain until morning. 
23:19: The first of the first fruits of your land you shall bring into the house of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a lamb in its mother’s milk. 
23:20: “Behold, I send My Angel before your face, to keep you in the way, and to bring you into the land I prepared for you. 
23:21: Listen to Him and obey His voice; do not provoke Him, for He will not pardon your transgressions; for My name is in Him. 
23:22: But if you will indeed obey My voice and do all I command you and keep My covenant, you shall be My special people above all nations, for the whole earth is Mine; and you shall be a royal priesthood and a holy nation. You shall speak these words to the children of Israel; and if you shall indeed obey My voice and do all I tell you, I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries. 
23:23: For My Angel will go before you and bring you in to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Gergesites, the Hivites and the Jebusites; and I will cut them off. 
23:24: You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do according to their works; but you shall utterly overthrow them and completely break down their sacred pillars. 
23:25: So you shall serve the Lord your God, and He will bless your bread, wine and water; and I will take away sickness from you. 
23:26: No one shall suffer miscarriage or be barren in your land; I will fulfill the number of your days. 
23:27: “I will send My fear before you; and I will cause confusion among all the nations to whom you come, and will make all your enemies turn their backs to you. 
23:28: I will also send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Amorites, the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from before you. 
23:29: I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate and the wild animals of the field become too numerous for you. 
23:30: Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have increased, and inherit the land. 
23:31: And I will set your bounds from the Red Sea to the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert to the Euphrates River. For I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and will drive them out from before you. 
23:32: You shall make no covenant with them, nor with their gods. 
23:33: They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against Me. For if you serve their gods, it will surely be a stumbling block to you.”

