31:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
31:2: “See, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. 
31:3: I have filled him with the divine Spirit of wisdom, understanding, and knowledge, and in every manner of workmanship, 
31:4: to design artistic works, to work in gold, silver and bronze, 
31:5: in cutting jewels for setting, in carving wood, and to work in every manner of workmanship. 
31:6: Indeed I have appointed with him Aholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and I have put understanding in the hearts of all who are gifted artisans, so they may make all I commanded you: 
31:7: the tabernacle of testimony, the ark of the testimony and the mercy seat on it, and all the utensils of the tabernacle 
31:8: “the altars and the table and its utensils, the pure gold lampstand with all its utensils, 
31:9: and the laver and its base 
31:10: the liturgical garments for Aaron and the garments of his sons, to minister to Me as priests, 
31:11: and the anointing oil and the compound incense for the holy place. According to all I have commanded you they shall do.” 
31:12: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
31:13: “You shall direct the children of Israel, saying: ‘See to it that you keep My Sabbaths, for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know I am the Lord who sanctifies you. 
31:14: You shall keep the Sabbaths, because this is holy for you to the Lord. Everyone who profanes it shall be put to death; for whoever works on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 
31:15: Work shall be done for six days, but the seventh is the Sabbath, a holy rest to the Lord. Whoever works on the seventh day shall be put to death. 
31:16: Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbaths, to observe them throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant. 
31:17: It is a sign between Me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days the Lord created heaven and earth, and on the seventh day He ceased and rested.’ ” 
31:18: So when He made an end of speaking with Moses on Mount Sinai, He gave him two tablets of testimony, tablets of stone, written with the finger of God.

