37:1: Now they made ten curtains for the tabernacle. 
37:2: The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits (and thus it was for all of them), and the width four cubits. 
37:3: They made the veil of blue, purple, spun scarlet and fine twined linen; a work woven with cherubim. 
37:4: Then they put it on four posts of incorruptible wood, overlaid with gold; and their capitals were gold, and their four bases were silver. 
37:5: For the tabernacle of testimony, they made the veil of the door blue, purple, spun scarlet and fine twined linen, a woven work with cherubs; 
37:6: and they made its five posts with their rings, and they gilded their capitals and bands with gold; but their five bases were bronze. 
37:7: Then they made the court toward the south, and its curtains were of fine twined linen, one hundred cubits symmetrically. 
37:8: There were twenty posts for them, with twenty bases. 
37:9: On the north side they were a hundred cubits symmetrically. On the south side they were a hundred cubits symmetrically, with their twenty posts and twenty bases. 
37:10: On the west side there were curtains of fifty cubits, with their ten posts and twenty bases. 
37:11: On the east side, there were curtains of fifty cubits: 
37:12: with one curtain on one side of the court entrance of fifteen cubits, with its three posts and bases, 
37:13: and one on the other side of the court entrance of fifteen cubits, with its three posts and bases. 
37:14: All the curtains of the court were of fine twined linen. 
37:15: The bases of the posts were bronze, the hooks of the posts were silver, and their capitals were overlaid with silver; and all the posts of the court were overlaid with silver. 
37:16: The veil of the court entrance was a woven work of blue, purple, spun scarlet and fine twined linen. Its length was twenty cubits, and its height or width was five cubits, corresponding with the curtains of the court. 
37:17: There were four posts and bases for the veil, made of bronze; with their hooks of silver, and their capitals overlaid with silver. 
37:18: The pegs all around the court were made of bronze, and overlaid with silver. 
37:19: So this was the construction of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was commanded to Moses, for the service of the Levites, through Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest. 
37:20: Bezalel the son of Uri, of the tribe of Judah, did as the Lord commanded Moses. 
37:21: There was Aholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, who was a master workman of woven and needlework in the scarlet and fine linen.

