24:1: Now He said to Moses, “Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar. 
24:2: Moses alone shall come near to God, but they shall not come near; nor shall the people go up with them.” 
24:3: So Moses came and told the people all the words of God and all the ordinances, and all the people answered with one voice and said, “All the words the Lord spoke we will do.” 
24:4: Then Moses wrote all the words of the Lord; and he rose early in the morning, and built an altar at the foot of the mountain, and twelve stones according to the twelve tribes of Israel. 
24:5: Then he sent young men of the children of Israel, who offered whole burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of calves to God. 
24:6: Moses took half the blood and put it in basins, and half the blood he poured on the altar. 
24:7: Then he took the Book of the Covenant and read in the hearing of the people; and they said, “All the Lord said we will do, and be obedient.” 
24:8: Moses then took the blood, sprinkled it on the people, and said, “This is the blood of the covenant the Lord made with you according to all these words.” 
24:9: After this, Moses went up, along with Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and the seventy of the elders of Israel; 
24:10: and they saw the place where the God of Israel stood. Under His feet was, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone, and the appearance of heaven’s firmament in its purity. 
24:11: And of Israel’s chosen men not one was missing. So they saw the place of God, and ate and drank. 
24:12: Then the Lord said to Moses, “Come up to Me on the mountain and be there; and I will give you tablets of stone, and the law and commandments I wrote, that you may teach them.” 
24:13: So Moses arose with his assistant Joshua, and they went up to the mountain of God. 
24:14: But he said to the elders, “Wait here for us until we come back to you. Indeed Aaron and Hur are with you. If any man has a difficulty, let him go to them.” 
24:15: Then Moses and Joshua went up into the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain. 
24:16: Now the glory of God descended on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. Then on the seventh day the Lord called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud. 
24:17: The sight of the Lord’s glory was like a burning fire on the top of the mountain before the children of Israel. 
24:18: So Moses went into the midst of the cloud and went up the mountain; and he was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.

