7:1: Now the Lord said to Moses, “See, I have made you a god to Pharaoh, and Aaron your brother shall be your prophet. 
7:2: You shall speak all I command you, and Aaron your brother shall speak to Pharaoh to send the children of Israel from his land. 
7:3: I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply My signs and My wonders in the land of Egypt. 
7:4: But Pharaoh will not heed you; and I shall lay My hand on Egypt, and bring My people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt with My power and great vengeance. 
7:5: Then all the Egyptians shall know I am the Lord, when I stretch out My hand on Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them.” 
7:6: Thus, as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did. 
7:7: Now Moses was eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh. 
7:8: Again the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, 
7:9: “When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, ‘Show us a sign or a wonder,’ then you shall say to Aaron your brother, ‘Take your rod and cast it on the ground before Pharaoh, and it shall become a serpent.’ ” 
7:10: So Moses and Aaron went before Pharaoh and his servants, and they did so, as the Lord commanded them. Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and his servants, and it became a serpent. 
7:11: In response, Pharaoh called together the wise men, the sorcerers, and the charmers of Egypt, and in like manner, they did the same with their sorceries. 
7:12: For each man threw down his rod, and they became serpents. But Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods. 
7:13: But Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he did not give heed to them, as the Lord commanded. 
7:14: So the Lord said to Moses, “Pharaoh’s heart is hardened; he refuses to let the people go. 
7:15: Go to Pharaoh early in the morning, when he goes to the water, and you shall stand by the river’s bank to meet him; and you shall take in your hand the rod that turned to a serpent. 
7:16: Then you shall say to him, ‘The Lord God of the Hebrews has sent me to you, saying, “Let My people go, to serve Me in the desert”; but indeed, until now you would not hear. 
7:17: Thus says the Lord: “By this you shall know I am the Lord. Behold, I will strike the water in the river with the rod in my hand, and it shall be turned to blood. 
7:18: Then the fish in the river shall die, the river shall stink, and the Egyptians will be unable to drink water from the river.” ’ ” 
7:19: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, “Say to Aaron your brother, ‘Take your rod in your hand and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt over their rivers, their canals their ponds, and all their standing water, so they may become blood. There shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and of stone.’ ” 
7:20: So Moses and Aaron did so, as the Lord commanded them. Aaron lifted his hand with the rod and struck the waters in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants. Then all the waters in the river were turned to blood. 
7:21: The fish in the river died, the river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink water from the river. So there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt. 
7:22: Then the sorcerers of Egypt did the same with their sorceries; and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he did not heed them, as the Lord said. 
7:23: Pharaoh then turned and went to his house. Neither was his heart moved by this. 
7:24: So all the Egyptians dug around the river for water to drink, because they could not drink water from the river. 
7:25: Then seven days passed after the Lord struck the river. 
7:26: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh and say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Let My people go, to serve Me. 
7:27: But if you refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all your territory with frogs. 
7:28: So the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly, which shall go up and come into your house, into your bedroom, on your bed, into the houses of your servants, on your people, into your ovens, and into your kneading bowls. 
7:29: The frogs shall come up on you, your people, and all your servants.” ’ ”

