6:1: Then the Lord said to Moses, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh; for with a strong hand he will let them go, and with a strong hand he will drive them from his land.” 
6:2: God also spoke to Moses and said to him, “I am the Lord. 
6:3: I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, as their God, but I did not reveal to them My name Lord. 
6:4: I also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of the Canaanites, the land of their sojourn, in which they were strangers. 
6:5: I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I remembered My covenant. 
6:6: Therefore say to the children of Israel: ‘I am the Lord; I will bring you out from under the Egyptian tyranny; I will rescue you from their bondage, and redeem you with an outstretched arm and great judgments. 
6:7: I will take you as My people, and be your God. Then you shall know I am the Lord your God who brought you out from under the Egyptian tyranny. 
6:8: I will also bring you into the land I swore to give Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and I will give it to you as a heritage: I am the Lord.’ ” 
6:9: So Moses spoke thus to the children of Israel; but they paid no heed to Moses, because of their faintheartedness and cruel bondage. 
6:10: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
6:11: “Go in, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt to send forth the children of Israel from his land.” 
6:12: Moses then spoke before the Lord, saying, “The children of Israel have paid no heed to me. How then shall Pharaoh heed me, for I am not eloquent?” 
6:13: Thus the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and gave them a command for the children of Israel and for Pharaoh king of Egypt, to send forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
6:14: Now these are the heads of their fathers’ houses: The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. This is the family of Reuben. 
6:15: Now the sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman. These are the families of Simeon. 
6:16: Now these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their genealogy: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari; and Levi lived one hundred and thirty-seven years. 
6:17: The sons of Gershon were Libni and Shimi, the houses of their family. 
6:18: The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel; and Kohath lived one hundred and thirty-three years. 
6:19: The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of Levi according to their kindreds. 
6:20: Now Amram took as his wife, Jochebed, the daughter of his father’s brother; and she bore him Aaron and Moses and Miriam their sister; and Amram lived one hundred and thirty-seven years. 
6:21: The sons of Izhar were Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri. 
6:22: The sons of Uzziel were Mishael, Elzaphan, and Zithri. 
6:23: Now Aaron took as his wife, Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon; and she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
6:24: The sons of Korah were Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph. This is the genealogy of Korah. 
6:25: Eleazar, Aaron’s son, took as his wife one of the daughters of Putiel; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the families of the Levites according to their genealogy. 
6:26: Now these are the same Aaron and Moses to whom God said, “Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt with their army.” 
6:27: These are the ones who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are the same Moses and Aaron. 
6:28: In the day the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, 
6:29: the Lord said to him, “I am the Lord. Speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt everything I tell you.” 
6:30: But Moses said before the Lord, “Behold, I am weak in speech; and how shall Pharaoh heed me?”

