24:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, saying, 
24:2: “Son of man, record for yourself daily, from this day, the day on which the king of Babylon laid siege against Jerusalem. 
24:3: Speak a parable to the house which provokes, and you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Stand over a basin and pour water into it. 
24:4: Put pieces of meat in it, every good piece, the thigh and shoulder full of meat, 
24:5: taken from the choice cattle. Also pile fuel-bones under it, make it boil well, and let the cuts simmer.” 
24:6: ‘Therefore thus says the Lord: “O bloody city, the basin in which there is scum, and the scum has not gone out of it. She brought forth the cuts, piece by piece, but no portion was selected. 
24:7: For her blood is in her midst; I set it upon a smooth rock; I did not pour it on the ground, that the dirt may cover it, 
24:8: that My wrath may come forth and take vengeance. I set her blood upon a smooth rock, so as not to cover it.” 
24:9: ‘Therefore thus says the Lord: “I will also make a great display of fire. 
24:10: I shall heap the wood on and kindle the fire, to consume the meat and boil away the sauce. 
24:11: I will set the basin on the coals, so its copper may become thoroughly heated and melted in the midst of her uncleanness, so her scum may be consumed, 
24:12: and her abundant scum may not come forth from her. 
24:13: Her scum shall be shameful, because you defiled yourself, and what if you will not be cleansed any more, until I have satisfied my wrath? 
24:14: I, the Lord, have spoken it, and it will come to pass; and I shall do it. I will not hold back nor show mercy. According to your ways and your inventions, I shall judge you,” says the Lord. “Therefore I shall judge you according to your bloodshed and inventions, you unclean, notorious, and provoking one.” ’ ” 
24:15: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
24:16: “Son of man, behold, I will take away your inventions before your eyes in the line of battle, but you shall neither mourn nor weep. 
24:17: There shall be groaning over bloodshed and mourning on bended knee. There shall be no braided hair on your head or sandals on your feet. You shall not be comforted by their lips, nor shall you eat the bread of men.” 
24:18: So I spoke to the people in the morning in the manner He commanded me, and that evening my wife died. The next morning I did as He commanded me. 
24:19: Then the people said to me, “Will you not tell us what these things mean that you are doing?” 
24:20: So I answered them, “The word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
24:21: ‘Speak to the house of Israel, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I shall desecrate My sanctuary, the boast of your strength, the object of your desire, over which your souls spare nothing; and your sons and daughters whom you left will fall by the sword. 
24:22: You will do as I have done. You will not be comforted by their mouth, nor eat the bread of men. 
24:23: Your hair will be on your heads and your sandals on your feet. You will neither mourn nor weep. You will sink deep in your wrongdoings, and each of you will comfort one another. 
24:24: Thus Ezekiel shall be a sign to you; according to all he does, you will do. When these things come, you will know that I am the Lord.’ ” 
24:25: ‘As for you, son of man, it shall not be as in the day when I take their strength from them, the arrogance of their boasting, the objects of their desire, and the arrogance of their souls, their sons and their daughters. 
24:26: In that day, he who is rescued will come to you, so you will hear of it with your own ears. 
24:27: In that day, your mouth will open before him who is rescued. You will speak and no longer be silent. Thus you will be a sign to them, and they shall know that I am the Lord.’ ”

