47:1: Then he brought me back to the outer door of the house, and there was water, flowing from under the open air of the chamber toward the east; and the water was flowing from under the right side court, from the south to the altar. 
47:2: Then he brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around on the outside to the outer gate that faces east; and there was water coming down, running out on the right side, 
47:3: in the direction in which a man went forth opposite. There was a measure in his hands, and he measured a thousand cubits with the measure; and he passed through the water. It was the water of remission. 
47:4: Again he measured a thousand, and he passed through the water, and the water was up to the knees. Again he measured a thousand, and the water came up to the waist. 
47:5: Again he measured a thousand, and it could not be crossed; for it broke into a rushing torrent which man cannot pass through. 
47:6: He said to me, “Son of man, have you seen this?” Then he led me to the bank of the river. 
47:7: As I returned, behold, along the bank of the river there were very many trees on this side and the other. 
47:8: Then he said to me, “This is the water that flows into Galilee, which is to the east. Then it goes down upon Arabia and reaches as far as the sea to the outlet of the water; and it will heal the waters. 
47:9: So it shall be that every living thing that moves, wherever the river goes, will live. There will be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters go there; for they will be healed, and everything will live wherever the river goes. 
47:10: Fishermen will stand by it from En Gedi to En Eglaim, and they will be places for spreading their nets. Their fish will be of the same kinds as the fish of the Great Sea, exceedingly many. 
47:11: But in its outlets and turns and overflows, they will not be healed, for they will be given over to salt. 
47:12: Along the bank of the river, on this side and that, will grow all kinds of trees used for food. Their leaves will not wither, and their fruit will not fail. They will bear fruit every month, because their water flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food, and their leaves for healing.” 
47:13: Thus says the Lord God: “These are the borders by which you shall divide the land as an inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. It is a setting forth of allotments. 
47:14: You shall inherit it equally with one another; for I raised My hand in an oath to give it to your fathers, and this land shall fall to you as your inheritance. 
47:15: This shall be the border of the land on the north: from the Great Sea which goes down and the entrance which divides Emath Seddatha, 
47:16: Berothah, Sebraim, Eliam (which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath), and the court of Saunan; these are above the borders of Auranitis. 
47:17: These are the boundaries from the Sea, from the court of Enan, the borders of Damascus and those to the north. 
47:18: On the east side you shall mark out the border from between Auran and Damascus, and between Gilead and the land of Israel, along the Jordan, which divides over along the eastern side of the sea which is to the east of Phoenicia. This is the east side. 
47:19: The southern and southwestern coasts are from Teman and Phoenicia to the waters of Meribah by Kadesh to the Great Sea. This part is the south and southwest. 
47:20: The west side shall be the Great Sea, from the southern boundary until one comes to a point opposite Hamath. This is the west side. 
47:21: “Thus you shall divide this land among yourselves according to the tribes of Israel. 
47:22: It shall be that you will divide it by lot as an inheritance for yourselves, and for the resident aliens who dwell among you, and who bear sons in the midst of you. They shall be to you as native-born among the sons of Israel, and they shall eat with you in the inheritance among the tribes of Israel. 
47:23: It shall be that in whatever tribe the resident alien dwells, there you shall give him his inheritance,” says the Lord God.

