26:1: Again it came to pass in the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
26:2: “Son of man, because Tyre spoke against Jerusalem, saying, ‘Good, well done!’ she is crushed; the nations destroyed her; she is turned to Me; she who was full is made desolate! 
26:3: Therefore, thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against you, as the sea causes its waves to crash the shore. 
26:4: They will knock down your walls, O Tyre, and break down your towers. I shall scrape her dust from her and make her like a smooth rock. 
26:5: It will be a drying-place for fishing nets in the midst of the sea, for I have spoken,’ says the Lord. ‘It shall be as a place of plunder for the nations. 
26:6: Also her daughters which are on the plain will be killed by the sword. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’ 
26:7: “For thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, from the north I will bring Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon against you, O Tyre. He is king of kings, with horses, chariots, horsemen, and an army of very many nations. 
26:8: He will kill your daughters with the sword in the plain; he will establish outposts and build forts around you. He will establish a barricade and warlike works against you all around, and array his spears against you. 
26:9: Your walls and towers will be struck down with his swords. 
26:10: Because of the great number of his horses, their dust clouds will cover you, and because of the sound of his horsemen and the wheels of his chariots, your walls will shake when he enters your gates, like one who enters a city from the plain. 
26:11: With the hooves of his horses, they will trample all your streets. He will kill your people with the sword, and bring down to the ground the substance of your strength. 
26:12: He will plunder your army and strip your possessions. He will break down your walls and pull down your desirable houses. He will throw your stones, your timber, and your soil into the sea. 
26:13: He will destroy the multitude of your musicians, and the sound of your harps will be heard no more. 
26:14: I shall make you bare like the top of a rock, a place for spreading nets; you will never be rebuilt, for I have spoken,’ says the Lord. 
26:15: “For thus says the Lord and Master to Tyre: ‘Will not the coastlands shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when the sword is unsheathed in your midst? 
26:16: Then all the rulers of the nations along the seacoast will step down from their thrones, lay aside their crowns, and take off their embroidered garments. They will be beside themselves as they sit on the ground. They will tremble with fear at their destruction and groan over you. 
26:17: They will take up a lamentation for you and say to you, “How were you destroyed from out of the sea, O renowned city that caused her fear to be on all her inhabitants?” 
26:18: From the day of your fall, the coastlands will also be afraid.’ 
26:19: “For thus says the Lord and Master: ‘When I make you a wasted city, like cities not to be inhabited, and when I bring the abyss upon you, and much water covers you, 
26:20: then I shall bring you down to those who descend into the pit, to the people of old, and I shall make you dwell in the depths of the earth, like an eternal desert, with those who go down into the pit, that you may never be inhabited, nor raised up to the land of the living. 
26:21: I shall give you over to destruction, and you will never exist again,’ says the Lord and Master.”

