46:1: ‘Thus says the Lord God: “The gate of the inner court that faces toward the east shall be shut the six working days, but on the Sabbath it shall be opened, and on the day of the New Moon it shall be opened. 
46:2: The prince shall enter by way of the entrance chamber of the gate from the outside, and stand by the gatepost. The priest shall prepare his whole burnt offerings and his peace offerings. He shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening. 
46:3: Likewise the people of the land shall worship at the entrance to this gate before the Lord on the Sabbaths and the New Moons. 
46:4: The prince shall offer the whole burnt offerings to the Lord on the Sabbath day: six lambs without blemish, and a ram without blemish, 
46:5: and the grain offering for a ram, and the grain offering for the lambs, as much as he wants to give, as well as a hin of oil with every cake. 
46:6: On the day of the New Moon it shall be a young bull without blemish, six lambs, and a ram without blemish. 
46:7: The cake with the bull and the cake with the ram shall be a grain offering, and for the lambs, whatever he wishes, along with a hin of oil with the cake. 
46:8: When the prince enters, he shall go in by way of the entrance of the gate, and go out the same way. 
46:9: But whenever the people of the land come before the Lord on the appointed feast days, whoever enters by way of the north gate to worship shall go out by way of the south gate; and whoever enters by way of the south gate shall go out by way of the north gate. He shall not return by way of the gate through which he came, but rather he shall go out right away. 
46:10: The prince shall then be in their midst. When they go in, he shall go in, and when they go out, he shall go out. 
46:11: At the festivals and the ceremonial days the grain offering shall be a cake of cereal for a bull, cereal for a ram, as much as he wants to give for the lambs, and a hin of oil with every cake. 
46:12: “Now when the prince offers whole burnt offerings as a thanksgiving to the Lord, he shall open the gate which faces east and offer his whole burnt offerings and his peace offerings, as he did on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he goes out he shall shut the gate. 
46:13: You shall offer daily as a whole burnt offering to the Lord a lamb of the first year without blemish, and you shall offer it every morning. 
46:14: You shall also offer a grain offering with it every morning, a sixth of a unit, and a third of a hin of oil to moisten the fine flour of the grain offering. This is a perpetual ordinance. 
46:15: You shall offer the lamb, the grain offering, and the oil, and you shall offer them as a whole burnt offering every morning continually.” 
46:16: ‘Thus says the Lord God: “If the leader gives a gift of some of his inheritance to any of his sons, it shall belong to his sons, and it is their possession by inheritance. 
46:17: But if he gives a gift of some of his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his until the Year of Remission, after which it shall return to the prince. But his inheritance shall belong to his sons, and it shall become theirs. 
46:18: Moreover the prince shall not take any of the people’s inheritance so as to oppress them. He shall provide an inheritance for his sons from his own property, so none of My people may be scattered from his property.” ’ ” 
46:19: Now he brought me through the entrance which was behind the gate into the hall of the holy priests, which faces toward the north; and there was a place set apart there. 
46:20: Then he said to me, “This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass offerings and the sin offerings, and where they shall bake the grain offering, all of it together, so as not to bring them out into the outer court to sanctify the people.” 
46:21: Then he brought me out into the outer court and took me around to the four sides of the court; and behold, on every side there was also a side court. 
46:22: Each side court of the four sides was small, forty cubits long and thirty wide; the same measure for all four. 
46:23: There were also halls all around in them, all around the four of them, and cooking hearths were made under the halls all around. 
46:24: Then he said to me, “These are the houses of the kitchens where the ministers of the house boil the sacrifices of the people.”

