13:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:2: “Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel. You shall prophesy and say to them, ‘Hear the word of the Lord. 
13:3: ‘Thus says the Lord: “Woe to those who prophesy from their hearts, but who see nothing at all! 
13:4: O Israel, your prophets are like foxes in the deserts. 
13:5: They do not stand in a firm place, and they gather flocks in the house of Israel. They will not stand up who say, ‘In the day of the Lord.’ 
13:6: They see lies and prophesy vain things. They say, ‘The Lord says,’ but the Lord did not send them; yet they begin to establish the word. 
13:7: Have you not seen a false vision, and spoken worthless prophecies?’ ” 
13:8: “Therefore say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Because your words are lies and your prophecies are worthless, therefore I am against you,” says the Lord. 
13:9: “I shall stretch out My hand against the prophets who see lies and utter worthless things. They will not exist for the instruction of My people, neither shall they be written down in the record of the house of Israel, nor enter the land of Israel. They shall know that I am the Lord. 
13:10: Because they have deceived My people, saying, ‘Peace, peace,’ and there is no peace; and one builds a wall, and they plaster it—it shall certainly fall. 
13:11: Say to those who plaster it, ‘It will fall,’ for there shall be flooding rain; and I will send hailstones against its joints, and it shall fall; and a wind will rise up and break it down. 
13:12: Behold, the wall has fallen, and will not they say to you, ‘Where is the mortar you used to plaster it?’ ” 
13:13: Therefore thus says the Lord: “I will also bring forth a driving and furious wind, and there shall be a flooding rain in My anger. They shall be swept away in anger, and there shall be a flooding rain in My wrath; and I shall bring down hailstones in My anger for complete destruction. 
13:14: So I will break down the wall you plastered, and it shall fall. I shall lay it on the ground, and its foundations will be revealed; and you will be consumed with rebukes. You shall know that I am the Lord. 
13:15: Thus will I accomplish My anger on the wall and on those who plastered it—it shall fall.” So I said to you, “The wall is no more, nor those who plastered it; 
13:16: even so are the prophets of Israel who prophesy over Jerusalem, and who see visions of peace for her when there is no peace,” says the Lord.’ 
13:17: “As for you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who prophesy from their own heart, and prophesy against them. 
13:18: You shall say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Woe to the women who sew pillows under every elbow, and make coverings for every head of every age, to mislead souls! The souls of my people are turned aside, and they keep alive souls for themselves. 
13:19: They desecrated My people for the sake of a handful of barley and for pieces of bread, so as to kill souls which should not die, and to keep souls alive which should not live, while you prophesy to a people who listen to worthless speeches.” 
13:20: ‘Therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold, I am against your pillows whereby you conspire against souls. I will tear them from your arms and free their souls, which you turned aside so as to scatter them. 
13:21: I will tear away your coverings and deliver My people out of your hand. They shall no longer be in your hand, and you shall know that I am the Lord. 
13:22: Because you have turned aside the heart of the righteous man unjustly—whom I did not turn aside—so as to strengthen the hands of the lawless man, that he should not completely turn from his evil way and live; 
13:23: therefore, you shall no longer see false visions, nor utter prophecies; for I will deliver My people out of your hand, and you shall know that I am the Lord.” ’ ”

