39:1: “As for you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal. 
39:2: I will gather and guide you, and raise you up from the far north, and bring you upon the mountains of Israel. 
39:3: Then I will destroy the bow in your left hand and the arrows in your right hand; and I will cast you down upon the mountains of Israel. 
39:4: For you and all with you shall fall, and I shall give the nations with you to the multitude of birds, to every fowl. But I will give you to all the wild animals of the field to be devoured, 
39:5: for you will fall on the face of the open plain, because I have spoken,” says the Lord. 
39:6: “I will also send fire upon Gog, and the coastal peoples shall dwell in peace. Then they will know that I am the Lord, 
39:7: and My holy name will be known in the midst of My people Israel; and My holy name will no longer be desecrated. The nations will also know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel. 
39:8: Behold, it is coming, and you will know it shall be,” says the Lord and Master. “This is the day of which I have spoken. 
39:9: Those who dwell in the cities of Israel will also go out and make a fire with the weapons: the shields and spears, the bows and arrows, and the javelins and lances; and they shall keep the fire burning for seven years. 
39:10: So they will not take any wood from the field, nor cut down any of the forests; rather, they will burn the weapons, and plunder those who plundered them, and despoil those who took spoils from them,” says the Lord. 
39:11: “In that day it shall come to pass that I will give Gog a place of renown, a monument in Israel, a common burial place of those who come to the sea. There they shall bury Gog and all his multitude round about the edge of the valley, and it will be called the Burial Place of Gog. 
39:12: The house of Israel shall bury them, that the land may be cleansed in the space of seven months. 
39:13: Yes, all the people of the land will bury them, and it shall be a place of renown for them in the day I was magnified,” says the Lord. 
39:14: “So they will appoint men continually to pass through the land to bury those bodies yet on the ground, to cleanse it by the end of seven months; and they will seek them out. 
39:15: Everyone who passes through the land and sees a man’s bone will also set a marker by it, until the grave diggers shall bury it in the Burial Place of Gog. 
39:16: Indeed, the name of the city shall be Burial Place. Thus the land will be cleansed.’ ” 
39:17: “As for you, son of man, say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Speak to every sort of bird and every wild animal of the field: ‘Assemble yourselves and come; gather together from all sides to My sacrifice which I offered up for you, a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, and you will eat meat and drink blood. 
39:18: You will eat the flesh of mighty men and drink the blood of the rulers of the earth: the rams, the young bulls, and the male goats; for they are all fatted animals. 
39:19: You will eat fat until you are full, and drink wine until you are drunken from My sacrifice which I slaughtered for you. 
39:20: You will be filled at My table, eating horse and rider, and the mighty man, and every warrior,’ says the Lord. 
39:21: “I will set My glory in your midst, and all the nations will see My judgment which I executed, and My hand which I laid on them. 
39:22: Then the house of Israel will know that I am the Lord their God from this day forward. 
39:23: All the nations will also know that the house of Israel was led into captivity on account of their sins, because they rejected Me. So I turned My face away from them and delivered them into the hands of their enemies; and they all fell by the sword. 
39:24: According to their uncleanness and according to their lawless actions I dealt with them, and turned My face away from them.” 
39:25: ‘Therefore thus says the Lord and Master: “Now I will turn back the captivity of Jacob and have mercy on the house of Israel; and I will be jealous for the sake of My holy name. 
39:26: They shall bear their dishonor and the wrongdoing they committed when they dwelt upon the land in peace; and there shall be no one to frighten them. 
39:27: Thus when I bring them back from the nations and gather them from the countries of the nations, I will be sanctified among them in the sight of the nations. 
39:28: Then they will know that I am the Lord their God, when I reveal Myself to them among the nations. 
39:29: But I will not turn away My face from them anymore, because I poured out My anger on the house of Israel,” says the Lord and Master.’ ”

