14:1: Now some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me. 
14:2: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
14:3: “Son of man, these men devised inventions in their hearts, and placed before their face the stumbling block of their wrongdoings. Shall I indeed answer them? 
14:4: Therefore speak to them, and say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Any man of the house of Israel who devises inventions in his heart, and places before his face the stumbling block of his wrongdoing, and then comes to the prophet, I, the Lord, will answer him according to the things in which his mind is entangled, 
14:5: so as to lead astray the house of Israel according to their hearts, which are completely alienated from Me in their inventions.’ ” 
14:6: “Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “Be converted and turn away from your practices and all your ungodliness; then turn your faces back again. 
14:7: For any man from the house of Israel, or the resident aliens who sojourn in Israel, who alienates himself from Me, and devises inventions in his heart, and places before his face the stumbling block of his wrongdoing, and comes to the prophet to inquire of him concerning Me, then I, the Lord, will answer him according to the things that entangle his mind. 
14:8: I shall set My face against that man, and make him desolate and ruined, and remove him from the midst of My people. You shall know that I am the Lord. 
14:9: If the prophet is led astray and speaks, I, the Lord, have led that prophet astray; and I will stretch out My hand against him and destroy him from the midst of My people Israel. 
14:10: So they shall bear their wrongdoing—the one who inquired shall bear his wrongdoing according to his wrong, and likewise it shall be for the prophet, 
14:11: so the house of Israel may not stray from Me, nor be defiled any longer with all their transgressions, but be My people and I their God,” says the Lord.’ ” 
14:12: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
14:13: “Son of man, if a land sins against Me by committing a trespass, I shall stretch out My hand against it. I shall cut off its supply of bread, send famine upon it, and remove man and cattle from it. 
14:14: Even though these three men: Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they would deliver only themselves by their righteousness,” says the Lord. 
14:15: “If again I bring wild animals upon the land and punish it, and it becomes desolate because men fear the wild animals, 
14:16: even though these three men were in the land, as I live,” says the Lord, “neither sons nor daughters would be saved. Instead, only they themselves would be delivered, but the land would be desolate. 
14:17: “Or again, if I should bring a sword on that land and say, ‘Let a sword go through the land,’ and I removed man and cattle from it, 
14:18: even though these three men were in it, as I live,” says the Lord, “they would deliver neither sons nor daughters, but only they themselves would be delivered. 
14:19: “Or if I should send death upon the land and pour out My anger upon it in blood, to destroy both man and cattle from it, 
14:20: and Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live,” says the Lord, “neither sons nor daughters would be left. Only they by their righteousness would deliver their souls.” 
14:21: Thus says the Lord: “But even if I send upon Jerusalem My four evil punishments—sword, famine, wild animals, and death—to destroy from it both man and cattle, 
14:22: yet behold, the remnant in it, those of it who are saved, who bring out sons and daughters from it, behold, these shall go forth to you. You will see their ways and inventions and be sorry over the evils I brought upon Jerusalem, even all the evils I brought upon it. 
14:23: Then they will console you, because you will see their ways and their inventions; and you will know I have not done in vain whatever I did in it,” says the Lord.

