7:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
7:2: “You, son of man, speak and say, ‘Thus says the Lord to the land of Israel: “An end has come; the end has come upon the four corners of the land. 
7:3: An end has come upon you who dwell in the land. 
7:4: The time has come; the day is near, not with tumult nor with travail. 
7:5: Now it is near. I shall pour out my wrath upon you and accomplish My anger among you. I shall judge you in your ways and cause all your abominations to come upon you. 
7:6: My eye will not spare, neither will I show mercy; because I will cause your ways to come against you. Your abominations shall be in your midst, and you will know that I am the Lord who smites. 
7:7: Now the end has come to you. I shall send judgment upon you, take vengeance on your ways, and recompense all your abominations upon you. 
7:8: My eye will not spare against you, nor will I have mercy; because I will cause your way to come against you, and your abominations shall be in your midst. You shall know that I am the Lord.” 
7:9: ‘For thus says the Lord: 
7:10: “Behold, the end has come. Behold, the day of the Lord. Although the rod has blossomed, arrogance has risen forth. 
7:11: The support of the lawless one shall be crushed, and without either tumult or haste. 
7:12: The time has come, behold the day. Let not the buyer rejoice, and let not the seller mourn. 
7:13: For the one who buys shall no longer turn to the one who sells, and a man shall no longer have control over his life. 
7:14: Blow with the trumpet and judge all at once. 
7:15: There shall be war by the sword from without and death and famine from within. He who is in the field will die by the sword, and famine and death shall destroy those in the city. 
7:16: Those who are saved and survive will be on the mountains; I will slay all the rest—each one in his wrongdoings. 
7:17: All hands shall be feeble, and all legs will be stained with urine. 
7:18: They will clothe themselves with sackcloth, and astonishment shall cover them. Shame will be on them—on every face, and baldness on every head. 
7:19: They will throw their silver into the streets, and their gold will be disregarded. Their souls will not be satisfied, nor their stomachs filled; because it became their stumbling block of wrongdoings. 
7:20: “As for their choice of adornment, they displayed these in arrogance and made their abominable images from them. For this reason I caused these things to be uncleanness to them. 
7:21: I will hand over these things into the hands of foreigners, to plunder these things; and I will give these things to the troublemakers of the land as booty, and they shall desecrate them. 
7:22: I will turn My face away from them, and they will defile My place of service. They will enter it unguardedly and desecrate it. 
7:23: “They will create disorder, because the land is full of peoples, and the city is full of lawlessness. 
7:24: I will turn back the pride of their strength, and their holy things shall be defiled. 
7:25: Though propitiation shall come and one shall seek peace, there shall be none. 
7:26: “There will be woe upon woe, and message upon message, and a vision will be sought from a prophet; but the law will perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders. 
7:27: The ruler shall clothe himself with destruction, and the hands of the people of the land will weaken. I will do to them according to their ways and reward them according to their judgments. Then they shall know that I am the Lord!” ’ ”

