10:1: Then I looked, and behold, over the firmament above the heads of the cherubim, there was the likeness of a throne over them, like a sapphire stone. 
10:2: He spoke to the man clothed with the long robe, “Go in between the wheels underneath the cherubim, and fill your hands with coals of fire from among the cherubim, and scatter them over the city.” So he went in as I watched. 
10:3: Now the cherubim were standing on the right side of the house as the man was entering, and the cloud filled the inner court. 
10:4: Then the glory of the Lord went up from the cherubim into the inner court of the house. The cloud filled the house, and the court was filled with the brightness of the Lord’s glory. 
10:5: The sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of Almighty God when He speaks. 
10:6: Then it came to pass, as He was commanding the man clothed in the sacred robe, saying, “Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubim,” that he went in and stood near the wheels. 
10:7: A cherub stretched out his hand into the midst of the fire, between the cherubim, and took and put it into the hands of the man clothed with the sacred garment. The man took it and went out. 
10:8: I saw the cherubim having the likeness of men’s hands under their wings. 
10:9: I looked, and behold, four wheels were standing near the cherubim, one wheel by each cherub; and the appearance of the wheels was like that of a precious stone. 
10:10: As for their appearance, there was one likeness to the four, as when a wheel is in the midst of a wheel. 
10:11: When they went, they went on their four sides. They did not turn when they went, for they followed in the direction the first head was looking, but they did not turn as they went. 
10:12: Their backs and hands, and their wings and wheels, were all full of eyes all around their four wheels. 
10:13: As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing, “wheel.” 
10:14: The cherubim were the same living creatures I saw by the River Chebar. 
10:15: When the cherubim went, the wheels close to them went; and when the cherubim lifted their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels did not turn. 
10:16: When the cherubim stood, the wheels stood; and when the cherubim mounted up, the wheels mounted up with them, because the spirit of life was in them. 
10:17: Then the glory of the Lord departed from the house and went upon the cherubim. 
10:18: The cherubim lifted their wings and mounted up from the earth in my sight. When they went out, the wheels were beside them; and they stood by the porches of the door of the Lord’s house opposite them. The glory of the God of Israel was over and above them. 
10:19: This is the living creature I saw under the God of Israel, by the River Chebar, and I knew they were cherubim. 
10:20: Each had four faces and each had eight wings, and the likeness of a man’s hand was under their wings. 
10:21: As for the likeness of their faces, these are the same faces I saw under the glory of the God of Israel by the River Chebar; and they went straight forward.

