5:1: “As for you, son of man, take for yourself a sword sharper than a barber’s razor. Acquire it for yourself, and shave your head and your beard; then take scales to weigh and divide the hair. 
5:2: One-fourth you shall burn in the midst of the city, at the completion of the days of the confinement. Then you shall take one-fourth and burn it up in its midst, and one-fourth you shall cut up around about all sides with the sword; and one-fourth you shall scatter to the wind. Thus I will unsheathe a sword after them. 
5:3: You shall also take from there a small amount of hair and wrap it in the fold of your garment. 
5:4: Then from this amount, again take some and throw it into the midst of the fire and burn it in the fire. Fire shall come forth from it, and you shall say to all the house of Israel, 
5:5: ‘Thus says the Lord: “This is Jerusalem; I have put her in the midst of the surrounding countries, in the midst of the nations. 
5:6: So you shall speak of My ordinances to the lawless one among the nations, and my laws to the lawless one from the surrounding countries; because they rejected My ordinances, and have not walked in My laws.” 
5:7: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Because your opportunity for lawlessness is taken from the nations around you, and you have not walked in my laws, nor kept My ordinances—indeed you have not even kept the ordinances of the nations around you—” 
5:8: therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will execute judgment in your midst in the sight of the nations. 
5:9: I will do among you what I have not done, and the likes of which I will not do again, because of all your abominations. 
5:10: Therefore fathers shall eat their children in your midst, and children shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments among you, and all of you who remain, I will scatter to every wind. 
5:11: Therefore, as I live,” says the Lord, “surely, because you defiled My holy things with all your abominations, I also will reject you. My eye will not spare, nor will I have any mercy. 
5:12: One-fourth of you shall be destroyed by death, and one-fourth shall be consumed in your midst by famine. One-fourth of you I will scatter to every wind, and one-fourth of you will fall by the sword all around you, for I will unsheathe a sword after them. 
5:13: Thus shall My anger and My wrath be accomplished against them. You will come to know this because I, the Lord, have spoken in My zeal, when I accomplish My anger against them. 
5:14: I will make you desolate, along with your daughters around you, in the sight of everyone who travels through. 
5:15: You shall be mournful and miserable among the nations around you when I execute judgments among you, in the vengeance of my anger. I, the Lord, have spoken. 
5:16: When I send forth against them My arrows of famine, and they are extinguished, I also shall break your supply of bread. 
5:17: So I will send against you famine and evil beasts and shall punish you. Death and blood shall pass through upon you, and I will bring a sword against you, all about you. I, the Lord, have spoken.” ’ ”

