28:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
28:2: “As for you, son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Because your heart is lifted up, and you say, ‘I am God, and I live in the dwelling of God, in the heart of the sea,’ yet you are a man and not God, though you set your heart as the heart of God. 
28:3: Are you wiser than Daniel? Or have not your wise men instructed you with their understanding? 
28:4: Have you gained wisdom by your own understanding? Have you gained power for yourself by your own knowledge or discernment, and obtained gold and silver by yourself for your treasuries? 
28:5: By your abundant understanding and trade you increased your power, and your heart was lifted up in your power.” 
28:6: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Since you set your heart as the heart of God, 
28:7: instead of this, behold, I shall bring foreigners against you, the plague of the nations. They will unsheathe their swords against the beauty of your knowledge and bring down your beauty in destruction. 
28:8: They will bring you down, and you will die the death of the slain in the heart of the sea. 
28:9: Will you still say, ‘I am God,’ before those who slay you? But you are a man and not God. 
28:10: You shall perish by the hands of foreigners among the multitude of the uncircumcised, for I have spoken,” says the Lord.’ ” 
28:11: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
28:12: “Son of man, take up a lamentation for the ruler of Tyre, and say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “You are a seal of resemblance and crown of beauty. 
28:13: You were the luxury of the paradise of God, adorned with every good stone: sardius, topaz, emerald, and diamond, sapphire, jasper, silver, and gold, stone of Liguria, agate, and amethyst, chrysolite, beryl, and onyx. You filled your treasuries and your storehouses with gold from the very day you were created. 
28:14: I appointed you to be with the cherub. I set you on the holy mountain of God. You were in the midst of the stones of fire. 
28:15: You were blameless in your days from the day you were created, until wrongs were found in you. 
28:16: By the abundance of your trade, you filled your secret rooms with lawlessness; thus you sinned. So you were cast wounded from the mountain of God, and the cherub brought you out from the midst of the stones of fire. 
28:17: Your heart was lifted up because of your beauty. Your knowledge was corrupted with your beauty. Because of the multitude of your sins I cast you to the ground. Before kings I set you forth as an example. 
28:18: Because of the multitude of your sins and the wrongdoings of your trade, you desecrated your sanctuaries; therefore, I will bring fire from your midst which will devour you, to turn you into ashes upon your land in the sight of all who see you. 
28:19: All who know you among the nations shall groan over you. You destroyed yourself, and you shall be present no more forever.” ’ ” 
28:20: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
28:21: “Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against her, 
28:22: and say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I shall be glorified in you. Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I execute judgments in you and am sanctified in you. 
28:23: Blood and death shall be in your streets, and those wounded by the sword shall fall on every side. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
28:24: “Thus there will no longer be in the house of Israel a thorn of bitterness or a painful thorn from all who are around them, who dishonor them. Then they will know that I am the Lord.” 
28:25: ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “I shall bring Israel from the nations where they were scattered, and I shall be sanctified among them in the sight of the peoples and of the nations. Then they will dwell in their own land which I gave to My servant Jacob. 
28:26: So they will dwell there in hope, build houses, and plant vineyards; yes, they will dwell in hope when I execute judgment on all those who dishonor them. Then they will know that I am the Lord their God, and the God of their fathers.” ’ ”

