38:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
38:2: “Son of man, set your face against Gog and the land of Magog, the ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him, 
38:3: and say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal. 
38:4: I shall gather you and all your army—horses and horsemen, all armed with breastplates, and a large assembly with shields, helmets, and swords—
38:5: along with Persians, Ethiopians, and Libyans with shields and helmets, 
38:6: and also Gomer and all belonging to him, and the house of Togarmah from the far north and all belonging to him, and many nations with you. 
38:7: “Be prepared; prepare yourself and all your gathering assembled with you; and you will be as an advance guard for Me. 
38:8: He will be prepared after many days, and will come in the last years. He will come into the land turned away from the sword, when many are gathered together from the nations against the land of Israel, which was entirely a desert, and he will come forth from the nations against all who dwell in peace. 
38:9: You shall arrive like rain, like a cloud to cover the land, you and all your army and the many nations with you.” 
38:10: ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “In that day it shall also come to pass that words will arise in your heart, and you will think evil thoughts. 
38:11: For you will say, ‘I will go up to the rejected land. I will come against those who live in peace and quiet, and who dwell in a land that has no wall, and neither bars nor gates, 
38:12: to plunder them and take spoils.’ I will turn your hand against a nation gathered from many nations, which acquired possessions and inhabitants in the midst of the land. 
38:13: Sheba, Dedan, and Carthaginian merchants and all their villages shall say to you, ‘You come for plunder, to capture a prey and take spoils. You gather your assembly to take silver and gold, and to carry off possessions and take spoils.’ ” ’ 
38:14: “Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say to Gog, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Will you not arise in that day, the day My people Israel dwell in peace? 
38:15: Yes, you will come from your place out of the far north, you and the many nations with you, all riding on horses, a great assembly and a mighty army. 
38:16: You will come upon My people Israel like a cloud to cover the land. It shall come to pass in the last days that I will bring you against My land, that all the nations may know Me when I am sanctified in you before them.” 
38:17: Thus says the Lord and Master to Gog, “You are he of whom I spoke in former days by the hand of My servants the prophets of Israel, in those days and years, that I would bring you up against them. 
38:18: “Thus it shall come to pass in that day, the day Gog comes against the land of Israel,” says the Lord and Master, 
38:19: “that My anger and jealousy shall arise in the fire of My wrath. I have spoken, ‘Certainly in that day there shall be a great earthquake in the land of Israel. 
38:20: Even the fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, the wild animals of the plain, all the reptiles that creep on the ground, and all the people on the face of the land will shake because of the Lord’s presence. Also, the mountains will break apart, the valleys will be done away with, and every wall will fall to the ground.’ 
38:21: I will also summon every fear against Gog,” says the Lord, “for the sword of every man shall be against his brother. 
38:22: I will judge him with death and bloodshed, and I will send a flooding rain and hailstones, and fire and brimstone against him and everyone with him, and also against the many nations with him. 
38:23: For I shall be magnified, sanctified, and glorified, and known in the sight of many nations. Then they shall know that I am the Lord.’ ”

