33:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
33:2: “Son of man, speak to the sons of your people, and you will say to them, ‘On whatever land I bring the sword, take one man from among the people of the land and make him their watchman. 
33:3: When he sees the sword coming upon the land, he shall blow the trumpet and warn the people. 
33:4: Then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet but does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be on his own head. 
33:5: For he heard the sound of the trumpet, but did not take warning. So his blood shall be upon himself. But he who takes warning will save his life. 
33:6: But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet, and the people are not warned, and the sword comes and takes any person from among them, he is taken away in his transgressions; but his blood I shall require at the watchman’s hand.’ 
33:7: “As for you, son of man, I made you a watchman for the house of Israel, and you shall hear a word from My mouth. 
33:8: When I say to the sinner, ‘You will surely die,’ and you do not speak to warn the ungodly man to change his way, that lawless man will die in his lawlessness; but his blood I shall require at your hand. 
33:9: But if you warn the ungodly man to turn from his way, and he does not turn from his way, he will die in his ungodliness; but you have delivered your own soul. 
33:10: “As for you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, ‘Thus you spoke, saying, “Our errors and our lawlessness are upon us, and we waste away in them. So how can we then live?’ ” 
33:11: Say to them, ‘As I live, thus says the Lord: “I do not will the death of the ungodly man. So the ungodly man should turn from his way and live. Turn heartily from your way, for why should you die, O house of Israel?’ ” 
33:12: “Say to the sons of your people, ‘The righteousness of a righteous man will not deliver him in the day he goes astray. As for the lawlessness of the ungodly man, it will not harm him in the day he turns from his lawlessness, but a righteous man who goes astray cannot save himself.” 
33:13: When I say regarding the righteous man, this man puts his trust in his righteousness but commits lawlessness, then none of his righteousness will be remembered, for he shall die in the wrongdoing he commits. 
33:14: Again when I say to the ungodly man, “You will surely die,” and he turns from his sin, does judgment and righteousness, 
33:15: restores the pledge, gives back what he has stolen, and walks in the ordinances of life without committing wrongdoing, he will surely live. Thus he will not die. 
33:16: None of his sins he committed will be remembered, for he does judgment and righteousness. By doing these things, he shall live.’ 
33:17: “Yet the sons of your people will say, ‘The way of the Lord is not upright.’ But it is their way that is not upright. 
33:18: When the righteous turns from his righteousness and commits lawlessness, he will die because of it. 
33:19: But when the sinner turns from his lawlessness and does judgment and righteousness, he shall live because of it. 
33:20: Yet this is what you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not upright.’ O house of Israel, I shall judge every one of you according to his ways.” 
33:21: Again it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the twelfth month, on the fifth day of the month, that one who escaped from Jerusalem came to me, saying, “The city is taken.” 
33:22: Then the hand of the Lord came upon me the evening before the man came, and opened my mouth. So when He came to me in the morning, my mouth was opened, and it was no longer closed. 
33:23: Thus the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
33:24: “Son of man, those who inhabit the desolate places in the land of Israel say, ‘Abraham was one man, and he inherited the land. But we are many, and the land was given to us as a possession.’ 
33:25: Therefore say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “As I live, truly those in the desolate places shall fall by the sword, and those in the open plain shall be given to the wild animals as food; and those in the strongholds and caves I will surely kill. 
33:26: For I shall make the land a desert, and the insolence of her strength will perish; and the mountains of Israel will be desolate by reason of no one passing through. 
33:27: Then they will know that I am the Lord. I shall make their land a desert, and it will be laid waste because of all the abominations they committed.’ ” 
33:28: “As for you, son of man, the sons of your people are talking about you by the walls and at the gateways of the houses. They speak as a man speaks to his brother, saying, ‘Let us gather and hear the words that proceed from the Lord.’ 
33:29: So they come together before you as people do, and they sit before you to hear your words, but they will not do them, because a lie is in their mouth, and their heart pursues their own defilements. 
33:30: For you are to them as a sweet, well-tuned song, and they will hear your words, but will not do them. 
33:31: So when it comes to pass, they will say, ‘Behold, it has come.’ Then they will know a prophet was among them.”

