6:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
6:2: “Son of man, set your face against the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them. 
6:3: You shall say, ‘You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord to the mountains and hills, and to the ravines and valleys: “Behold, I shall bring a sword against you and destroy your high places. 
6:4: Your altars, along with your sacred precincts, shall be broken down. I shall cast down your wounded in the presence of your idols, 
6:5: and scatter your bones all around your altars. 
6:6: In all your dwelling places, the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be abolished, so as to destroy your altars and break your idols in pieces and remove your sacred precincts. 
6:7: “The wounded shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the Lord, 
6:8: when some among you are escaping from the sword among the nations and when you are scattered among the countries. 
6:9: Then those of you who escape among the nations where they were taken captive will remember Me. For I swore an oath against their heart, which went away from Me and committed fornication, and against their eyes, which committed fornication after their practices. They shall mourn over themselves amid all their abominations. 
6:10: Then they shall come to know that I, the Lord, have spoken.” 
6:11: ‘Thus says the Lord: “Clap your hands and stamp your feet, and say, ‘Good, well done! Good, well done!’ Because of all the abominations of the house of Israel, they shall fall by the sword, by death, and by famine. 
6:12: He who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who is far off shall die an untimely death; and he who is in the confinement shall perish by famine. Thus will I accomplish My wrath upon them. 
6:13: Then you shall come to know that I am the Lord, when your wounded are among your idols, all around your altars, on every high hill, and under every shady tree where they offered a sweet aroma to their idols. 
6:14: So I will stretch out My hand against them, and appoint the land for destruction and ruin, from the desert of Diblah, in all their dwelling places. Then you shall know that I am the Lord.” ’ ”

