37:1: Again the hand of the Lord came upon me, and brought me by the Spirit of the Lord, and set me in the midst of the plain, which was full of human bones. 
37:2: So He led me round about them, and behold, there was a great multitude of bones on the face of the plain. They were very dry. 
37:3: Then He said to me, “Son of man, can these bones live?” So I answered, “O Lord, You know this.” 
37:4: Then He said to me, “Prophesy to these bones and say to them, ‘O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. 
37:5: Thus says the Lord to these bones: “Behold, I will bring the Spirit of life upon you. 
37:6: I will put muscles on you and bring flesh upon you. I will cover you with skin and put my Spirit into you. Then you shall live and know that I am the Lord.” ’ ” 
37:7: So I prophesied as He commanded me, and it came to pass while I prophesied that, behold, there was a shaking, and the bones came together, each one to its joint. 
37:8: So I looked, and behold, muscle and flesh grew upon them, and skin covered them over; but no breath was in them. 
37:9: Then He said to me, “Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Come from the four winds and breathe upon these dead men; and let them live.” ’ ” 
37:10: So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the Spirit entered into them; and they lived and stood upon their feet, an exceedingly great assembly. 
37:11: Again the Lord spoke to me, saying, “Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. They say, ‘Our bones are dry, our hope has perished, and we are lost.’ 
37:12: Therefore prophesy and say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will open your tombs, bring you up from your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel. 
37:13: Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I open your tombs to lead you, My people, up from their graves. 
37:14: I will put My Spirit in you, and you will live; and I will place you in your own land. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I have spoken, and I will do it,” says the Lord.’ ” 
37:15: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
37:16: “As for you, son of man, take a rod for yourself and write on it, ‘Judah and the sons of Israel devoted to him.’ Then take a second rod for yourself and write on it, ‘For Joseph, the rod of Ephraim, and all the sons of Israel added to him.’ 
37:17: Then you shall join them to one another for yourself so as to form one rod, and they shall be in your hand. 
37:18: “So it shall be, when the sons of your people speak to you, saying, ‘Will you not tell us what you mean by these?’—
37:19: then you will say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will take the tribe of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel, who are added to him, and I will give them to the tribe of Judah. They shall be one rod in the hand of Judah.’ ” 
37:20: The rods on which you write will be in your hand before their eyes. 
37:21: Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “Behold, I will take the whole house of Israel from the midst of the nations where they went, and will gather them from every side, to bring them into the land of Israel. 
37:22: I shall make them one nation in My land, even on the mountains of Israel, and there will be one Ruler over them. There will no longer be two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms anymore, 
37:23: so as to defile themselves with their idols. For I will deliver them from all their lawlessness whereby they sinned, and will cleanse them. They will be to Me as a people, and I shall be to them as their God. 
37:24: “My Servant David shall be the Ruler among them, and there will be one Shepherd of them all; for they will walk in My ordinances and observe My judgments, and do them. 
37:25: Then they will dwell in their land which I gave Jacob My servant, where their fathers dwelt; and they will dwell upon it, and My servant David shall be their Ruler forever. 
37:26: I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant, and I will establish My sanctuary in their midst forever. 
37:27: My tabernacle shall be among them; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people. 
37:28: Then the nations will know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them, when My sanctuary is among them forever.” ’ ”

