41:1: Then he brought me into the temple and measured its entrance, six cubits wide on one side and six cubits wide on the other side. 
41:2: The width of the entryway was ten cubits, and the sills of the gate were five cubits on this side and five cubits on the other side; and he measured its length, forty cubits, and its width, twenty cubits. 
41:3: He also went into the inner court and measured the posts of the doorway, two cubits; and the doorway itself, six cubits high; and the width of the sills, seven cubits. 
41:4: He measured the length of the doors, forty cubits, and the width, twenty cubits, in front of the sanctuary; and he said to me, “This is the holy of holies.” 
41:5: Next he measured the wall of the house, six cubits. The width of each side all around was four cubits on every side. 
41:6: The side chambers were thirty-two in number, each next to the other, and the layout along the wall of the house all around was so one could see that all of them went together, and that nowhere did they touch the walls of the house. 
41:7: As one went up from story to story, the side chambers became wider all around, because their supporting ledges in the wall of the temple ascended like steps; therefore, the width of the structure increased as one went up from the lowest story to the highest, by way of the middle one. 
41:8: The side chambers of the house all around were of a high layout of sides, equal in measurement to one measuring stick. The layout was six cubits. 
41:9: The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits, and the open spaces between the sides of the house 
41:10: and the halls measured twenty cubits in width, all around the sides of the house. 
41:11: The doors of the halls led to the open space: the one door led north, and the other door led south; and the width of the light of the open space was five cubits in width all around. 
41:12: That which made a boundary before the open space, like the edge of the sea, was seventy cubits wide; and the width of the wall which bordered was five cubits all around, and its length ninety cubits. 
41:13: Then he measured in front of the house, one hundred cubits long, and the open spaces and their boundaries and walls were one hundred cubits long. 
41:14: Also the width of the face of the house, along with the open spaces before it, was one hundred cubits. 
41:15: Then he measured the length of the boundary in front separating the open space, with its galleries on the one side and on the other side, one hundred cubits. The temple, its corners and the outer entrance area, 
41:16: their thresholds and the latticed doors, were set so the narrow openings would give light through narrow openings to all three stories, like that of a fishnet. The house and all the neighboring structures all around were paneled with wood, the floor and from the floor up to the doorways, and the doorways opened up all three stories into the shaded light. 
41:17: As far as the nearby wall of the inner and outer courts and along upon the wall all around within and without 
41:18: were depicted cherubim and palm trees, between cherub and cherub. Each cherub had two faces, 
41:19: the face of a man toward a palm tree on one side, and the face of a lion toward a palm tree on the other side. Thus it was depicted throughout the house all around. 
41:20: From the floor to the threshold, the cherubim and the palm trees were interspersed upon the walls. 
41:21: The holy place and the temple were laid out square, and along the face of the sanctuary was what looked like a wooden altar. 
41:22: Its height was three cubits, and its length and breadth, two cubits. It had horns, and its ascent and walls were wooden. Then he said to me, “This is the table that is before the presence of the Lord.” 
41:23: The temple and the holy place had two doors. 
41:24: The doors had two panels apiece, two folding panels on hinges: two panels for one door and two panels for the other door. 
41:25: Depictions were upon them, cherubim and palm trees upon the doorways of the temple, like the depiction of the sanctuary, and excellent kinds of wood, as in front of the entrance without, along with hidden windows. 
41:26: He measured from one side to the other along the canopies of the entrance chamber, and the sides of the house were joined together.

