45:1: “When you divide the land by lot into inheritance, you shall set apart the firstfruit for the Lord, a holy section of the land. Its length shall be twenty-five thousand cubits and its width twenty thousand. It shall be holy throughout its territory all around. 
45:2: Of this there shall be a square plot for the sanctuary, five hundred by five hundred rods, with fifty cubits around it for an open space. 
45:3: From this measurement, you shall measure twenty-five thousand cubits long and ten thousand wide; in it shall be the sanctuary, the holy of holies. 
45:4: From the land, there shall be a portion for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to the Lord. It shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for their sanctuary. 
45:5: An area twenty-five thousand cubits long and ten thousand wide shall belong to the Levites, the ministers of the house. They shall have it as a possession with cities to dwell in. 
45:6: “You shall appoint as the property of the city an area five thousand cubits wide and twenty-five thousand long; in this manner the whole house of Israel shall have the firstfruit of the holy things. 
45:7: The prince shall have a portion from this, and from this there shall be a portion for the firstfruits of the sanctuary and for the possession of the city, in front of the firstfruits of the sanctuary, extending westward on the west side and eastward on the east side. The length shall be equal to one of the parts of the western borders, and the length shall be to the eastern borders of the land. 
45:8: The land shall be his possession in Israel, and the princes of Israel shall not oppress My people anymore; but the house of Israel will inherit the land according to their tribes.” 
45:9: ‘Thus says the Lord God: “Enough, O princes of Israel. Remove wrongdoing and trouble, and execute judgment and righteousness, and take away oppression from My people,” says the Lord God. 
45:10: “You shall have an honest scale, an honest unit, and an honest dry measure. 
45:11: The unit and the dry measure shall be uniform for receiving goods, so the dry measure may contain one-tenth of a homer, and the unit one-tenth of a homer. The standard shall be according to the homer, equal in size. 
45:12: The standard weight shall be twenty obols. Five shekels shall indeed be five, ten shekels shall be ten, and fifty shekels shall be for you one mina. 
45:13: “This is the firstfruit you shall offer: you shall give one-sixth of a unit from a homer of wheat, and one-sixth of an ephah from a kor of barley. 
45:14: The ordinance concerning oil, the liquid measure of oil, is one-tenth of such a measure. There are ten measures in a homer. 
45:15: One sheep shall be given from a flock of ten, from all the rich pastures of Israel, for sacrifices and whole burnt offerings, and for peace offerings to make atonement for you,” says the Lord God. 
45:16: “All the people shall give this firstfruit to the prince of Israel. 
45:17: Then it shall be the prince’s part to offer whole burnt offerings, sacrifices, and drink offerings at the feasts, the new moons, the Sabbaths, and at all the appointed festivals of the house of Israel. He shall offer the sin offerings, the sacrifice, the whole burnt offerings, and the peace offerings to make atonement for the house of Israel.” 
45:18: ‘Thus says the Lord God: “In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a young bull without blemish and make atonement for the sanctuary. 
45:19: The priest shall take some of the blood of the atonement and put it on the doorposts of the house, on the four corners of the temple, on the altar, and on the gateposts of the gate of the inner court. 
45:20: Thus you shall do this in the seventh month, on the first of the month. You shall take a rate from each one and make atonement for the house. 
45:21: “In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall observe the Paschal Feast; for seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. 
45:22: And on that day the leader shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a sin offering. 
45:23: During the seven days of the feast he shall make whole burnt offerings to the Lord, seven bulls and seven rams without blemish, daily for seven days, and a kid of the goats daily for a sin offering. 
45:24: He shall also prepare a cake for each bull and a cake for each ram, using a hin of oil for each cake. 
45:25: In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, he shall do likewise for seven days, according to the sin offerings, the whole burnt offerings, the grain offering, and the oil.”

