27:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
27:2: “Son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyre, 
27:3: and you shall say to Tyre, situated at the entrance of the sea and market of the peoples on many coastlands, ‘Thus says the Lord to Tyre: “You say, ‘I clothed myself with beauty.’ 
27:4: In the heart of the sea, your sons clothed you with beauty for Beelim. 
27:5: Cedar from Senir was used by you in building. Boards of cypress timber were obtained from Lebanon to make masts of pinewood, 
27:6: and they made your oars out of wood from Bashan. They made your sacred objects from ivory, and your groves of houses out of wood from the coastlands of Cyprus. 
27:7: Your couch was made of fine embroidered linen from Egypt, to cover you with splendor, and to clothe you with blue and purple from the coasts of Elishah. They were your coverings. 
27:8: Your rulers were the inhabitants of Sidon, and the Aradians were your oarsmen. Your skilled men, O Tyre, were your pilots. 
27:9: The elders of Byblos and their wise men were in you. These men strengthened your counsel. All the ships of the sea and their oarsmen were yours, even to the far west. 
27:10: “Persians, Lydians, and Libyans were in your army. Your warriors hung shields and helmets in you, and they gave you glory. 
27:11: The sons of the Aradians and your army were upon your walls. There were guards in your towers, and they hung their quivers on the walls all around your harbors. These sons completed your beauty. 
27:12: “Those from Carthage were your merchants because of the abundance of all your strength. They furnished your marketplace with silver, gold, iron, tin, and lead. 
27:13: Greece and all the extended regions, these busied themselves in the trade of human lives and of vessels of copper for your markets. 
27:14: The house of Togarmah furnished your marketplace with horses and horsemen. 
27:15: The sons of Rodians were your traders. From the coastlands they multiplied your trade in ivory. 
27:16: To those who brought in the goods, you paid them wages in return from the abundant market of your mixed goods: myrrh and embroidered works from Tharsis, and even people as merchandise. Ramoth and Chorchor also traded with you. 
27:17: Judah and the sons of Israel, these traded with you. They traded in your marketplace the sale of wheat, myrrh, cassia, fine honey, oil, and resin. 
27:18: Damascus was a merchant in your marketplace because of the abundance of all your power: wine from Helbon and wool from Miletos. They also provided wine for your marketplace. 
27:19: From Asel, there came wrought iron and wheels for your market of mixed goods. 
27:20: Dedan was your merchant, with choice animals for chariots. 
27:21: Arabia and all the rulers of Kedar, these were your traders, bringing camels, rams, and lambs in which they traded with you. 
27:22: The merchants of Sheba and Raamah traded with you. They traded for your wares the choicest spices, all kinds of precious stones, and gold. 
27:23: Harran and Canneh also traded with you. Assyria and Chilmad were merchants in your marketplace, 
27:24: as they brought trade in blue cloth, in choice treasures bound with ropes, and in cypress wood. 
27:25: The ships of Tarshish were your merchants in abundance, with your market of mixed goods, and you were filled and heavily loaded in the heart of the sea. 
27:26: “Your oarsmen brought you into many waters, but the south wind broke you to pieces in the heart of the sea. 
27:27: Your armies and the profits from your markets of mixed goods, your oarsmen and pilots, your counselors and merchandisers from your market of mixed goods, all your men of war who are in you, and the entire company in your midst will fall in the heart of the sea in the day of your fall. 
27:28: At the sound of your cry, your pilots will be greatly afraid. 
27:29: All who handle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of the sea will disembark from their ships and stand on the shore. 
27:30: They will cry out in pain over you. They will cry out bitterly, put dust on their heads, and spread ashes under themselves. 
27:31: Their sons will take up a song of grief and a lamentation for you, saying, 
27:32: ‘How great a profit did you find from the sea? The nations were filled from your abundance and the kings of the earth were enriched from your market of mixed goods. 
27:33: Now you are broken to pieces in the sea, in the depth of water. Your market of mixed goods and all your assembly fell in your midst, along with all your oarsmen. 
27:34: All the inhabitants of the coastlands are shocked over you. Their kings are greatly astonished, and their faces are covered with tears. 
27:35: The merchants from the nations hiss at you, for destruction has come about, and you will be no more forever.’ ” ’ ”

