32:1: Again it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
32:2: “Son of man, take up a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt, and you shall say to him, ‘You are like a lion among the nations, and you are like a dragon in the sea. You assaulted with your rivers, troubled water with your feet, and trampled your rivers.’ 
32:3: “Thus says the Lord: ‘I shall therefore spread a net over you of many peoples, and bring you up with my fishhook. 
32:4: I shall stretch you out upon the earth, and the plains will be filled with you. I shall cause the birds of the heavens to settle upon you, and all the beasts of the whole earth to fill up on you. 
32:5: I shall offer your flesh on the open mountains and saturate them with your blood. 
32:6: The land shall be drenched with your excrement because of your multitude upon the mountains. I will fill the valleys with you. 
32:7: When I extinguish you, I shall cover up heaven and make its stars grow dark. I shall cover up the sun with a cloud, and the moon will not give her light. 
32:8: All the bodies that give light in heaven shall grow dark over you, and I shall bring darkness upon your land, says the Lord and Master. 
32:9: I will provoke to anger the heart of many peoples, when I lead you captive among the nations into a land you have not known. 
32:10: Many nations will become saddened over you, and their kings will be utterly amazed when My sword flies in their faces, as they await their own fall from the day of your fall.’ 
32:11: “For thus says the Lord: ‘The sword of the king of Babylon will come upon you with the swords of his mighty men, and I will strike down your strength. 
32:12: All these men are plagues from the nations. They will destroy the insolence of Egypt, and all her strength will be crushed. 
32:13: I will also destroy all her cattle from beside her abundant water, which the foot of man will trouble no more, nor will the footstep of cattle trample it. 
32:14: Thus at that time, their waters shall become still, and their rivers will flow like oil, says the Lord, 
32:15: when I give Egypt over to destruction, and the land becomes desolate with all its fullness, and when I disperse all who dwell in it. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
32:16: There is a lamentation, and you shall mourn over Pharaoh. The daughters of the nations shall mourn over him and over Egypt, and they shall mourn for her over all her strength,’ says the Lord and Master.” 
32:17: Again in the first month of the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
32:18: “Son of man, lament over the strength of Egypt, for the nations will cast down her daughters dead into the depth of the earth, to those who go down into the pit. 
32:19: They shall fall with him among those slain by the sword, and all his strength will sleep in death. The mighty men will say to you, 
32:20: ‘Be in the depth of the pit, for to whom are you superior? Go down and sleep in death with the uncircumcised among those slain by the sword.’ 
32:21: “Assyria is there and all its company, and all the slain were put there. Their burial- place is in the depth of the pit, and his company are set round about his grave. 
32:22: All the slain who fell by the sword are those who caused their fear to be upon the land of the living. 
32:23: “There is Elam and all his army all around his grave, and all the slain who fell by the sword, and the uncircumcised who went down into the depth of the earth, and who caused their terror to be in the land of the living. Now they bear their torment with those who go down to the pit among the slain. 
32:24: “Meshech and Tubal and all their strength were put there around about his grave. All his slain men, all the uncircumcised slain by the sword, who spread their terror in the land of the living, are there. 
32:25: They sleep in death with the mighty men who fell of old, who went down to Hades with their weapons of war. 
32:26: Their swords were put under their heads, but their lawlessness was placed on their bones, because they terrified the mighty men in the land of the living. 
32:27: As for you, you will sleep in death among the uncircumcised, with those slain by the sword. 
32:28: “There are the rulers of Assyria who yielded his strength to a wound of the sword. 
32:29: They sleep in death with the slain, with those who go down into the pit. 
32:30: There are the rulers of the north, all the commanders of Assyria, who, with their terror and their strength, go down slain into the pit. They fell asleep uncircumcised with those slain by the sword, and they bear their torment with those who go down to the pit. 
32:31: “King Pharaoh will see them, and be comforted over all their strength,” says the Lord and Master. 
32:32: “For I caused his fear to be in the land of the living; but he shall sleep in death among the uncircumcised, with those slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude,” says the Lord and Master.

