30:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
30:2: “Son of man, prophesy and say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Woe, woe be the day! 
30:3: For the day of the Lord is near. It shall be the end of the nations. 
30:4: The sword will come upon the Egyptians, and there shall be trouble in Ethiopia. The wounded will fall in Egypt, and her foundations shall collapse. 
30:5: Persians, Cretans, Lydians, Libyans, and all the mixed multitude, and all the children of the covenant shall fall by the sword therein.” 
30:6: ‘Thus says the Lord: “The supports of Egypt will fall, and the insolence of her strength will come down. From Migdol to Syene, they shall fall by the sword therein,” says the Lord. 
30:7: “So they shall be wasted in the midst of desolate countries, and their cities shall be wasted in the midst of desolate cities. 
30:8: Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I set Egypt on fire and crush all those who help it. 
30:9: In that day messengers shall go forth, hurrying to destroy Ethiopia, and there will be trouble among them in the day of Egypt; for behold, it is coming.” 
30:10: ‘Thus says the Lord and Master: “I shall destroy a multitude of the Egyptians by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. 
30:11: His hand and the hand of his people, they are the plague of the nations, sent to destroy the land. They will unsheathe all their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain. 
30:12: I shall make their rivers deserts, and I will destroy the land and its fullness by the hands of foreigners. I, the Lord, have spoken.” 
30:13: ‘For thus says the Lord and Master: “I shall also destroy the men of high status from Memphis, and the rulers of Memphis from the land of Egypt; and they shall be no more. 
30:14: I shall destroy the land of Pathros, and set Tanis on fire, and exact vengeance on Diospolis. 
30:15: I will pour out My anger on Sais, the strength of Egypt, and I will destroy the multitude of Memphis, 
30:16: and set Egypt on fire. Syene will be greatly troubled, there shall be a rupture in Diospolis, and there will be flooding waters. 
30:17: The youth of Heliopolis and Bubastum shall fall by the sword, and the women will go into captivity. 
30:18: At Taphnae, the day will be darkened, when there I break to pieces the kingly powers of Egypt, and there the insolence of her strength shall perish. A cloud will cover her, and her daughters shall be taken prisoners. 
30:19: Thus I shall execute judgment on Egypt, for they shall know that I am the Lord.” ’ ” 
30:20: Again it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, that the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
30:21: “Son of man, I have broken the arms of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and, behold, it has not been bound up to be healed, and no plaster applied to make it strong enough to hold a sword. 
30:22: Therefore thus says the Lord and Master: ‘I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt. I will break his strong and outstretched arms, and throw down his sword from his hand. 
30:23: I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them as chaff throughout the countries. 
30:24: I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put My sword into his hand. I shall bring it upon Egypt, and he shall plunder and take spoils from it. 
30:25: Thus I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh will fall. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I put My sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he stretches it out against the land of Egypt. 
30:26: So I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them as chaff throughout the countries. Then all will know that I am the Lord.’ ”

