25:1: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
25:2: “Son of man, set your face against the children of Ammon and prophesy against them. 
25:3: You shall say to the children of Ammon, ‘Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord: “Because you rejoiced against My sanctuary when it was desecrated, and against the land of Israel when it was destroyed, and against the house of Judah when they went into captivity; 
25:4: therefore, behold, I shall deliver you over to the children of Kedem as an inheritance. They will dwell among you with their goods and pitch their tents among you. They will eat your fruit and drink your drinks. 
25:5: I shall make the city of Ammon a pasturage for camels, and Rabbah a resting place for sheep. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” 
25:6: For thus says the Lord: “Because you clapped your hands, and applauded with your feet, and rejoiced in your soul against the land of Israel; 
25:7: therefore, I shall stretch out My hand against you and give you as plunder to the nations. I shall utterly destroy you from among the peoples and cause you to perish from the countries. Then you will know that I am the Lord.” 
25:8: ‘Thus says the Lord: “Because Moab said, ‘Behold, the house of Israel and Judah is like all the nations,’ 
25:9: therefore, behold, I shall weaken the shoulder of Moab from its prominent cities—its choice land—as is the house of Beth Jeshimoth, above the spring of the seaside city. 
25:10: I have given these cities, as well as the children of Ammon, as an inheritance to the sons of Kedem, so there may be no memory of the sons of Ammon. 
25:11: Thus I shall take vengeance upon Moab, and they will know that I am the Lord.” 
25:12: ‘Thus says the Lord: “Because of what Edom did when it took revenge on the house of Judah, and because they remembered wrongs and exacted punishment,” 
25:13: therefore, thus says the Lord: “I shall also stretch out My hand against Edom, and destroy man and cattle from it, and make it a desert. They will be pursued from Teman and fall by the sword. 
25:14: I shall execute My vengeance on Edom by the hand of My people Israel, and they will do in Edom according to My wrath and anger. Then they will know My vengeance,” says the Lord. 
25:15: ‘Therefore thus says the Lord: “Because the foreigners exacted vengeance and raised up vengeance, rejoicing in their souls to destroy My people forever,” 
25:16: therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold, I shall stretch out My hand against the foreigners, and I shall utterly destroy the Cretans. I shall also destroy those who dwell on the seacoast. 
25:17: I shall execute great vengeance, and they will know that I am the Lord, when I bring My vengeance upon them.” ’ ”

