11:1: Now the whole earth was one language and one speech. 
11:2: And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and dwelt there. 
11:3: Then they said to one another, “Come, let us make bricks and bake them with fire.” They had brick for stone and asphalt for mortar. 
11:4: They also said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower, whose top will reach to heaven; and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth.” 
11:5: But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower the sons of men built. 
11:6: Then the Lord said, “Indeed, the people are one race and one language, and they have begun to do what they said. Now they will not fail to accomplish what they have undertaken. 
11:7: Come, let Us go down there and confuse their language, so they may not understand one another’s speech.” 
11:8: So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they ceased building the city and the tower. 
11:9: Therefore its name is called, Babel, because there the Lord confused the languages of all the earth; and from there the Lord God scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth. 
11:10: Now this is the genealogy of Shem: Shem was one hundred years old, and begot Arphaxad two years after the flood. 
11:11: After he begot Arphaxad, Shem lived five hundred years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:12: Now Arphaxad lived one hundred and thirty-five years, and begot Cainan. 
11:13: After he begot Cainan, Arphaxad lived four hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. Now Cainan lived one hundred and thirty years, and begot Salah. So after he begot Salah, Cainan lived three hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:14: Now Salah lived one hundred and thirty years, and begot Eber. 
11:15: After he begot Eber, Salah lived three hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:16: Now Eber lived one hundred and thirty-four years, and begot Peleg. 
11:17: After he begot Peleg, Eber lived three hundred and seventy years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:18: Now Peleg lived one hundred and thirty years, and begot Reu. 
11:19: After he begot Reu, Peleg lived two hundred and nine years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:20: Now Reu lived one hundred and thirty-two years, and begot Serug. 
11:21: After he begot Serug, Reu lived two hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:22: Now Serug lived one hundred and thirty years, and begot Nahor. 
11:23: After he begot Nahor, Serug lived two hundred years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:24: Nahor lived seventy-nine years, and begot Terah. 
11:25: After he begot Terah, Nahor lived one hundred and twenty-nine years, and begot sons and daughters; and he died. 
11:26: Now Terah lived seventy years, and begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
11:27: Now this is the genealogy of Terah: Terah begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran begot Lot. 
11:28: So Haran died before his father Terah in his native land, in Ur of the Chaldeans. 
11:29: Then Abram and Nahor took wives: the name of Abram’s wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah and Iscah. 
11:30: But Sarai was barren, and had no child. 
11:31: Now Terah took his son Abram and his grandson Lot, the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram’s wife, and led them out from Ur of the Chaldeans, to go to the land of Canaan; and they came to Haran and dwelt there. 
11:32: So the days of Terah were two hundred and five years, and Terah died in Haran.

