14:1: Now it came to pass in the reign of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, 
14:2: they made war with Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar). 
14:3: All these joined together in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea). 
14:4: Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth they rebelled. 
14:5: Now in the fourteenth year, Chedorlaomer and the kings with him came and cut down the giants in Ashteroth Karnaim and strong nations with them: the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 
14:6: and the Horites in the mountains of Seir, as far as El Paran, which is by the wilderness. 
14:7: Then they turned back and came to En Mishpat (that is, Kadesh), and cut down all the princes of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazezon Tamar. 
14:8: Now the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) went out and joined together in battle in the Valley of Siddim, 
14:9: against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of nations, Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar four kings against five. 
14:10: Now the Valley of Siddim was full of asphalt pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled and fell in there; but those left fled to the mountains. 
14:11: Then they took all the cavalry of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their provisions, and went their way. 
14:12: They also took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed. 
14:13: Then one who escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew, who at that time dwelt by the oak of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner; and they were allies with Abram. 
14:14: Now when Abram heard his brother Lot was taken captive, he armed his three hundred and eighteen trained servants, born in his own house, and went in pursuit as far as Dan. 
14:15: So he divided his forces against them by night, and he and his servants attacked and pursued them as far as Hobah, north of Damascus. 
14:16: So he brought back all the cavalry of Sodom, and also brought back his brother Lot and his goods, as well as the women and the people. 
14:17: Then the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh (that is, the King’s Valley), after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings with him. 
14:18: Now Melchizedek the king of Salem brought out bread and wine; he was the priest of God Most High. 
14:19: He blessed Abram and said, “Blessed be Abram of God Most High, Creator of heaven and earth; 
14:20: and blessed be God Most High, Who delivered your enemies into your hands.” Then Abram gave him a tithe of all. 
14:21: Now the king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give me the people, and keep the cavalry for yourself.” 
14:22: But Abram said to the king of Sodom, “I have raised my hand to God Most High, Creator of heaven and earth, 
14:23: that I will take nothing of yours, from a thread to a sandal strap, lest you should say, ‘I have made Abram rich’—
14:24: except only what the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.”

