7:1: Then the Lord God said to Noah, “Enter the ark, you and all your family, because I have seen you righteous before Me in this generation. 
7:2: You shall also bring with you into the ark the clean cattle by sevens, male and female; and the unclean cattle by twos, male and female; 
7:3: and the clean birds of heaven by twos, male and female, to keep seed alive on the face of all the earth. 
7:4: For after seven more days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will blot out from the face of the earth every living thing I made.” 
7:5: So Noah did all the Lord God commanded him. 
7:6: Now Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came on the earth. 
7:7: Then Noah, with his sons, his wife, and his sons’ wives, entered the ark because of the flood waters. 
7:8: Also the clean and unclean birds, the clean and unclean cattle, and everything that creeps on the earth, 
7:9: entered with Noah into the ark, two by two, male and female, as God commanded him. 
7:10: Then it came to pass after seven days, the waters of the flood came upon the earth. 
7:11: In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day, all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the floodgates of heaven were opened. 
7:12: Then it rained on the earth forty days and forty nights. 
7:13: On the very same day Noah and his wife, his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and their wives, entered the ark. 
7:14: Also, all the wild animals after their kind, all cattle after their kind, every creeping thing moving upon the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, 
7:15: entered the ark with Noah, two by two, of all flesh in which is the breath of life. 
7:16: So those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God commanded him. Then the Lord God shut him in the ark. 
7:17: Now the flood was on the earth forty days and forty nights. The waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. 
7:18: So the waters prevailed and greatly increased on the earth, and the ark moved about on the surface of the waters. 
7:19: The waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth, and all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered. 
7:20: The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward, and covered all the high mountains. 
7:21: And all flesh died that moves on the earth: birds and cattle, wild animals, and every creeping thing that moves on the earth, and every man. 
7:22: Thus all things in whose nostrils was the breath of life, and everything on dry land, died. 
7:23: So He blotted out all living things on the face of the earth: both man and cattle, creeping things and the birds of heaven. They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah and those with him in the ark remained alive. 
7:24: Now the waters prevailed on the earth one hundred and fifty days.

