4:1: Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, and said, “I have acquired a man through God.” 
4:2: Then she bore again, this time his brother Abel. Now Abel was a shepherd of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. 
4:3: Now in the process of time Cain brought a sacrifice to the Lord from the fruits of the ground. 
4:4: Abel also brought a sacrifice from the firstborn of his flock and of their fat. The Lord respected Abel and his offering, 
4:5: but He did not respect Cain and his sacrifices. So Cain was extremely sorrowful, and his countenance fell. 
4:6: So the Lord said to Cain, “Why are you extremely sorrowful? And why has your countenance fallen? 
4:7: Did you not sin, even though you brought it rightly, but did not divide it rightly? Be still; his recourse shall be to you; and you shall rule over him.” 
4:8: Now Cain talked with Abel his brother; and it came to pass, when they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. 
4:9: Then God said to Cain, “Where is Abel your brother?” He replied, “I do not know. Am I my brother’s keeper?” 
4:10: Thus God said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood cries out to Me from the ground. 
4:11: So now you are cursed from the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand. 
4:12: When you till the ground, it shall no longer yield its strength to you. You will be groaning and trembling on the earth.” 
4:13: Then Cain said to the Lord, “My guilt is too great to be forgiven! 
4:14: Surely You have driven me out this day from the face of the ground; I shall be hidden from Your face; I shall be groaning and trembling on the earth. Then it will happen if anyone finds me, he will kill me.” 
4:15: So the Lord God said to him, “Not so! Whoever kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold.” Thus, the Lord set a sign on Cain, lest anyone finding him should kill him. 
4:16: Then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod opposite Eden. 
4:17: And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city, and called the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch. 
4:18: To Enoch was born Irad; and Irad begot Mehujael; and Mehujael begot Methushael; and Methushael begot Lamech. 
4:19: Then Lamech took two wives for himself: the name of one was Adah, and the name of the second was Zillah. 
4:20: So Adah bore Jabal. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. 
4:21: His brother’s name was Jubal. He is the one who invented the psaltery and harp. 
4:22: As for Zillah, she also bore Tubal-Cain, a smith and a manufacturer of bronze and iron. And the sister of Tubal-Cain was Naamah. 
4:23: Then Lamech said to his wives Adah and Zillah: “Hear my voice, you wives of Lamech And listen carefully to my words, Because I killed a man for wounding me And a young man for hurting me. 
4:24: If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, Then Lamech seventy-sevenfold.” 
4:25: Again Adam knew his wife Eve, and she conceived and bore a son, and he named him Seth, saying, “God has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel, whom Cain killed.” 
4:26: As for Seth, to him also a son was born. He named him Enosh, who hoped in the Lord God and called upon His name.

