13:1: Now Abram went up from Egypt to the South, he and his wife and all he had, and Lot with him. 
13:2: Abram was very rich in cattle, silver, and gold. 
13:3: So he went on his journey from the South as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent was at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai, 
13:4: to the place of the altar he made there at the beginning. There Abram called on the name of the Lord. 
13:5: Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents. 
13:6: But the land was not able to support them, so they might dwell together, for their possessions were so great they could not dwell together. 
13:7: So strife arose between the herdsmen of Abram’s livestock and those of Lot. Now the Canaanites and the Perizzites dwelt in the land at that time. 
13:8: So Abram said to Lot, “Let there be no strife between you and me, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen; for we are brethren. 
13:9: Is not the whole land before you? Separate from me. If you take the left, then I will go to the right; or, if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.” 
13:10: Thus Lot lifted his eyes and saw all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere (before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah), like the garden of God, like the land of Egypt as you go toward Zoar. 
13:11: Then Lot chose all the plain of Jordan for himself, and journeyed east. So they separated from each other. 
13:12: Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, but Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent, even as far as Sodom. 
13:13: Now the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and sinful before God. 
13:14: Then God said to Abram, after Lot separated from him, “Lift your eyes now and look from the place where you are—northward, southward, eastward, and westward; 
13:15: for all the land you see I give to you and your seed forever. 
13:16: And I will make your seed as the dust of the earth; that if a man could number the dust of the earth, then your seed also could be numbered. 
13:17: Arise, walk in the land through its length and its breadth, for I will give it to you.” 
13:18: Then Abram moved his tent, and went and dwelt by the oak of Mamre in Hebron, and built an altar there to the Lord.

