35:1: Now God said to Jacob, “Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there; and make an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother.” 
35:2: Then Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign gods among you, purify yourselves, and change your garments. 
35:3: Let us arise and go up to Bethel and make there an altar to God, who answered me in the day of my tribulation, and was with me and saved me on the road I traveled.” 
35:4: So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods in their hands, and the earrings in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the terebinth tree near Shechem. 
35:5: Then Israel departed from Shechem, and the fear of God was upon all the cities around them. Thus they did not pursue the sons of Jacob. 
35:6: Now Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), in the land of Canaan, he and all the people with him. 
35:7: He built an altar there and called the place, Bethel, because there God appeared to him when he fled from the face of his brother Esau. 
35:8: Now Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak. So Jacob called its name the Oak of Mourning. 
35:9: Then God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Mesopotamia, and blessed him. 
35:10: God said to him, “Your name is Jacob; your name shall not anymore be called, Jacob, but Israel shall be your name.” 
35:11: God also said to him, “I am your God. Increase and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall proceed from you, and kings shall come from your body. 
35:12: The land I gave Abraham and Isaac I give to you; and to your seed after you I give this land.” 
35:13: Then God ascended from him in the place where He talked with him. 
35:14: So Jacob set up a pillar in the place where He talked with him, a pillar of stone; and he poured a drink offering on it, and he poured oil on it. 
35:15: Thus Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him Bethel. 
35:16: Then Jacob departed from Bethel, and when there was but a little distance to go to Ephrath, Rachel labored with much difficulty in childbirth. 
35:17: Now it came to pass, when she was in hard labor, that the midwife said to her, “Take courage; you will have this son also.” 
35:18: So it was, as her soul was departing (for she died), she called his name Ben-Oni; but his father called him Benjamin. 
35:19: Thus Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem). 
35:20: Then Jacob set a pillar on her grave, which is the pillar of Rachel’s grave to this day. 
35:21: Now Israel journeyed and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder. 
35:22: So it happened, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father’s concubine. Israel heard about it, and it was seen as evil in his sight. 
35:23: Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: the sons of Leah were Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn, and Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun; 
35:24: the sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin; 
35:25: the sons of Bilhah, Rachel’s maidservant, were Dan and Naphtali; 
35:26: and the sons of Zilpah, Leah’s maidservant, were Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Mesopotamia of Syria. 
35:27: Then Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre, or Kirjath Arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac sojourned. 
35:28: Now the days of Isaac were one hundred and eighty years. 
35:29: So Isaac breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his people, being old and full of days. Thus his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.

