46:1: Now Israel took his journey with all he had, and came to the Well of Oath, and offered a sacrifice to the God of his father Isaac. 
46:2: Then God spoke to Israel in a vision of the night, and said, “Jacob, Jacob!” So he said, “Here I am.” 
46:3: So God said to him, “I am the God of your fathers; do not fear to go down to Egypt, for I will make of you a great nation there. 
46:4: I will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also surely bring you up again, and Joseph will put his hand on your eyes.” 
46:5: Then Jacob arose up from the Well of Oath, and the sons of Israel carried their father Jacob, their baggage, and their wives, in the carts Pharaoh sent to carry him. 
46:6: So they took their livestock and their goods, which they acquired in the land of Canaan, and went to Egypt, Jacob and all his seed with him. 
46:7: His sons and his sons’ sons, his daughters and his sons’ daughters, and all his seed he brought with him to Egypt. 
46:8: Now these were the names of the children of Israel, Jacob and his sons, who went to Egypt: Reuben was Jacob’s firstborn. 
46:9: The sons of Reuben were Enoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
46:10: The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman. 
46:11: The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
46:12: The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah (but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan). The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
46:13: The sons of Issachar were Tola, Puvah, Job, and Shimron. 
46:14: The sons of Zebulun were Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. 
46:15: These were the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Mesopotamia of Syria, and his daughter Dinah. All the souls, his sons and his daughters, were thirty-three. 
46:16: The sons of Gad were Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli. 
46:17: The sons of Asher were Jimnah, Ishuah, Isui, Beriah, and Serah, their sister; and the sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel. 
46:18: These were the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bore to Jacob: sixteen souls. 
46:19: The sons of Rachel, Jacob’s wife, were Joseph and Benjamin. 
46:20: Also, to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Poti-Pherah priest of On, bore to him. Sons were also born to Manasseh: Machir, whom his Syrian concubine bore to him; and Machir begot Gilead. Also, the sons of Ephraim, Manasseh’s brother, were Shuthelah and Tahan. 
46:21: The sons of Benjamin were Belah, Becher, Ashbel, and the sons of Belah were Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim; and Gera begot Ard. 
46:22: These were the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob: all the souls were eighteen. 
46:23: The son of Dan was Hushim. 
46:24: The sons of Naphtali were Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem. 
46:25: These were the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and she bore these to Jacob: seven souls in all. 
46:26: All the souls who went with Jacob to Egypt, who came from his loins, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives, were sixty-six souls in all. 
46:27: The sons of Joseph born to him in the land of Egypt were nine. Thus all the souls of Jacob’s house who went to Egypt were seventy-five. 
46:28: Now he sent Judah before him to Joseph, that he might meet him in Goshen in the land of Rameses. 
46:29: So Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to Goshen to meet his father Israel; and he presented himself to him, and fell on his neck and wept a good while. 
46:30: Then Israel said to Joseph, “Now let me die in peace, since I have seen your face, because you are still alive.” 
46:31: Joseph then said to his brothers, “I will go up and tell Pharaoh, and say to him, ‘My brothers and those of my father’s house, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me. 
46:32: But the men are shepherds, for they are pastoral men; and they have brought their flocks, their herds, and all they have.’ 
46:33: So it shall be, when Pharaoh calls you and says, ‘What is your occupation?’ 
46:34: that you shall say, ‘Your servants are pastoral men from our youth even till now, both we and also our fathers,’ that you may dwell in the land of Goshen in Arabia; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.”

