6:1: Now it came to pass that men began to exist in great numbers on the earth, and daughters were born to them. 
6:2: So when the sons of God saw the daughters of men were beautiful, they took wives for themselves of all they chose. 
6:3: Then the Lord God said, “My Spirit shall not remain with these people forever, for they are flesh. So their days shall be one hundred and twenty years.” 
6:4: Now there were giants on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men of old, men of renown. 
6:5: Then the Lord God saw man’s wickedness, that it was great in the earth, and every intent of the thoughts within his heart was only evil continually. 
6:6: So God was grieved He made man on the earth, and He thought this over. 
6:7: Then God said, “I will blot out man whom I created from the face of the earth, from man to cattle, and from the creeping things to the birds of heaven, for I am grieved I made them.” 
6:8: But Noah found grace in the presence of the Lord God. 
6:9: This is the genealogy of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, who was perfect in his generation and well-pleasing to God. 
6:10: So Noah begot three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
6:11: Now the earth was corrupt before God, and filled with unrighteousness. 
6:12: Thus the Lord God looked upon the earth, and indeed it was corrupt; for all flesh corrupted their way on the earth. 
6:13: Then God said to Noah, “The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with unrighteousness through them; and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. 
6:14: Make yourself an ark of square timber. You shall make the ark in compartments, and cover it inside and outside with pitch. 
6:15: Thus you shall make the ark: three hundred cubits in length, fifty cubits in breadth, and thirty cubits in height. 
6:16: Now when you assemble the ark, you shall gradually finish it up to a cubit at the top, and set the door in its side. You shall make the ark with lower, second, and third stories. 
6:17: And behold, I am bringing a flood of water on the earth, to destroy from under heaven all flesh in which is the breath of life. Whatever is on the earth shall die. 
6:18: But I will establish My covenant with you; and you shall go into the ark you, your sons, your wife, and your sons’ wives with you. 
6:19: From every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every kind into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female. 
6:20: Of the birds after their kind, of animals after their kind, and of every creeping thing on the earth after its kind, two of every kind, they will enter into the ark with you, male and female, to keep them alive. 
6:21: You shall also take for yourself all kinds of food to eat, and you shall gather it both for yourself and for them.” 
6:22: Thus Noah did according to all the Lord God commanded him, so he did.

