18:1: Then God appeared to him at the oak of Mamre, as he was sitting in the tent door during the noon hour. 
18:2: So he lifted his eyes and looked, and behold, three men stood before him; and when he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them, and bowed himself to the ground, 
18:3: and said, “O Lord, if I have now found grace in Your sight, do not pass by Your servant. 
18:4: Let water be brought, and let them wash your feet, while you cool off under the tree. 
18:5: And I will bring bread for you to eat. After that you may pass by, inasmuch as you have come to your servant.” They said, “Do as you have said.” 
18:6: So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah and said, “Quickly, make ready three measures of fine meal; knead it and make cakes.” 
18:7: Then Abraham ran to the herd, took a young calf, tender and good, gave it to his servant, and he hastened to prepare it. 
18:8: He also took butter and milk and the calf he prepared, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree as they ate. 
18:9: Then He said to him, “Where is Sarah your wife?” He replied, “Here, in the tent.” 
18:10: Again He said, “I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and behold, Sarah your wife shall have a son.” (Sarah was listening in the tent door behind him.) 
18:11: Now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in age; and Sarah had passed the age of childbearing. 
18:12: Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, “I have not yet had a child until now, and my lord is old also?” 
18:13: Then the Lord said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh within herself, saying, ‘Shall I surely bear a child, since I am old?’ 
18:14: Is anything impossible with God? At the appointed time I will return to you, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.” 
18:15: But Sarah denied she laughed, for she was afraid, saying, “I did not laugh;” but He said, “No, but you did laugh.” 
18:16: Then the men rose from there and looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and Abraham went along and escorted them on their journey. 
18:17: Then the Lord said, “Shall I hide from Abraham, my servant, what I am about to do? 
18:18: But Abraham shall surely become a great and populace nation, and in him shall all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. 
18:19: For I know he will order his sons and his house after him. They will keep the way of the Lord, to do righteousness and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham what He has spoken to him.” 
18:20: Then the Lord said, “The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah has been completed, and their sins are exceedingly great. 
18:21: Therefore, I will go down now and see whether or not they are carrying out the outcry coming to Me concerning them.” 
18:22: Then the men turned away from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham remained before the Lord. 
18:23: So Abraham drew near and said, “Would You also destroy the righteous with the ungodly? 
18:24: Suppose there were fifty righteous within the city; would You also destroy the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous in it? 
18:25: Far be it from You to do such a thing as this, to slay the righteous with the wicked, that the righteous should be as the wicked; far be it from You! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?” 
18:26: Then the Lord said, “If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.” 
18:27: So Abraham answered and said, “Indeed now, I who am but dust and ashes have taken it upon myself to speak to the Lord: 
18:28: But suppose there were five less than the fifty righteous; would You destroy all of the city for lack of five?” He replied, “If I find there forty-five, I will not destroy it.” 
18:29: Again he spoke to Him and said, “But suppose there should be forty found there?” So He said, “I would not destroy it for the sake of forty.” 
18:30: Then he said, “Let not the Lord be offended, and I will speak: Suppose thirty should be found there?” So He said, “I would not destroy it if I should find thirty there.” 
18:31: Again he said, “Since I have permission to speak to the Lord, suppose twenty should be found there?” So He said, “I would not destroy it for the sake of twenty.” 
18:32: Then he said, “Let not the Lord be offended, and I will speak but once more, suppose ten should be found there?” So He said, “I would not destroy it for the sake of the ten.” 
18:33: So the Lord went His way as soon as He finished speaking with Abraham; and Abraham returned to his place.

