17:1: When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, “I am your God; be pleasing before Me and blameless. 
17:2: I will establish My covenant between Me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly.” 
17:3: Then Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, 
17:4: “As for Me, behold, My covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many nations. 
17:5: No longer shall your name be called, Abram, but your name shall be, Abraham; for I have made you a father of many nations. 
17:6: I will make you exceedingly fruitful; and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. 
17:7: I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your seed after you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be your God and the God of your seed after you. 
17:8: Also I will give you and your seed after you the land you are occupying as a sojourner, all the land of Canaan, as an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.” 
17:9: Then God said to Abraham, “As for you, you shall keep My covenant, you and your seed after you throughout their generations. 
17:10: This is the covenant you shall keep, between Me and you and your seed after you throughout their generations: Every male child among you shall be circumcised; 
17:11: and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin. It shall be a sign of the covenant between Me and you. 
17:12: A child of eight days old shall be circumcised by you—every male child throughout your genealogy, he who is born in your house or bought with money from any foreigner not of your seed. 
17:13: He who is born in your house, and he who is bought with your money must be circumcised; and My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. 
17:14: And the uncircumcised male child, who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin on the eighth day, that soul shall be cut off from his people; for he has broken My covenant.” 
17:15: Then God said to Abraham, “As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. 
17:16: And I will bless her and also give you a son by her; and I will bless him; and he shall become nations; and kings of peoples shall be from him.” 
17:17: Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed, and said in his mind, “Shall a child be born to a man who is one hundred years old, and shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child?” 
17:18: And Abraham said to God, “Oh, that Ishmael might live before You!” 
17:19: Then God said, “No, Sarah your wife shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name, Isaac; and I will establish My covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him. 
17:20: As for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him and will increase and multiply him exceedingly. He shall beget twelve nations, and I will make him a great nation. 
17:21: But My covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year.” 
17:22: So God finished talking with Abraham, and departed from him. 
17:23: So Abraham took Ishmael his son, all who were born in his house, and all who were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham’s house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very same day, as God said to him. 
17:24: Now Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
17:25: And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
17:26: That very same day Abraham was circumcised, and his son Ishmael. 
17:27: Also, all the men of his house, born in the house or bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him.

