5:1: This is the book of the genesis of mankind in the day God made Adam, whom He made in God’s image. 
5:2: He made them male and female, and blessed them; and the day He made them He called his name, Adam. 
5:3: Now Adam lived two hundred and thirty years, and begot a son according to his form and image, and named him Seth. 
5:4: After he begot Seth, the days of Adam were seven hundred years; and he begot sons and daughters. 
5:5: So all the days Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died. 
5:6: Now Seth lived two hundred and five years, and begot Enosh. 
5:7: After he begot Enosh, Seth lived seven hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:8: So all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died. 
5:9: Now Enosh lived one hundred and ninety years, and begot Cainan. 
5:10: After he begot Cainan, Enosh lived seven hundred and fifteen years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:11: So all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died. 
5:12: Now Cainan lived one hundred and seventy years, and begot Mahalalel. 
5:13: After he begot Mahalalel, Cainan lived seven hundred and forty years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:14: So all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died. 
5:15: Now Mahalalel lived one hundred and sixty-five years, and begot Jared. 
5:16: After he begot Jared, Mahalalel lived seven hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:17: So all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died. 
5:18: Now Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years, and begot Enoch. 
5:19: After he begot Enoch, Jared lived eight hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:20: So all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died. 
5:21: Now Enoch lived one hundred and sixty-five years, and begot Methuselah. 
5:22: After he begot Methuselah, Enoch was well-pleasing to God for two hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:23: So all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. 
5:24: Thus Enoch was well-pleasing to God, and was not found, for God translated him. 
5:25: Now Methuselah lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, and begot Lamech. 
5:26: After he begot Lamech, Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years, and begot sons and daughters. 
5:27: So all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died. 
5:28: Now Lamech lived one hundred and eighty-eight years, and begot a son. 
5:29: And he called his name, Noah, saying, “He will give us rest from our work and the toil of our hands, because of the ground the Lord God cursed.” 
5:30: After he begot Noah, Lamech lived five hundred and sixty-five years, and had sons and daughters. 
5:31: So all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and fifty-three years, and he died. 
5:32: And Noah was five hundred years old, and he begot Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

