20:1: Now Abraham journeyed from there to the South, and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned among the Gerarites. 
20:2: Then Abraham said of Sarah his wife, “She is my sister,” for he was afraid to say, “She is my wife,” lest at a given time the men of the city should kill him because of her. Now Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah. 
20:3: But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, “Indeed, you are a dead man because of the woman you have taken, for she is a man’s wife.” 
20:4: Now Abimelech had not come near her; and he said, “O Lord, will You destroy an ignorant and just nation? 
20:5: Did he not say to me, ‘She is my sister’?, and did she not say to me, ‘He is my brother’? I did this thing with a clean heart and righteous hands.” 
20:6: Then God said to him in a dream, “Yes, I know you did this with a clean heart, and I spared you that you might not sin against Me; therefore, I did not allow you to touch her. 
20:7: Now therefore, restore the man’s wife, for he is a prophet; and he will pray for you, and you shall live. But if you do not return her, rest assured you shall die, you and all who are yours.” 
20:8: So Abimelech rose early in the morning, called all his servants, and told all these things in their hearing; and the men were very much afraid. 
20:9: Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, “What have you done to us? How have I offended you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done.” 
20:10: Again Abimelech said to Abraham, “What possessed you to do this thing?” 
20:11: Abraham replied, “Because I thought, surely the worship of God is not in this place; and they will kill me on account of my wife. 
20:12: But indeed, she truly is my sister. She is the daughter of my father, but not of my mother; and she became my wife. 
20:13: So it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father’s house, I said to her, ‘This righteousness shall you do for me: in every place we enter, say of me, “He is my brother.” ’ ” 
20:14: Then Abimelech took one thousand pieces of silver, sheep, oxen, and male and female servants, and gave them to Abraham; and he restored Sarah his wife to him. 
20:15: Thus Abimelech said to Abraham, “See, my land is before you; dwell where it pleases you.” 
20:16: Then to Sarah he said, “Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver, which will vindicate your honor before all those with you. But tell the truth in all things.” 
20:17: So Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female servants. Then they bore children; 
20:18: for the Lord closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.

