40:1: Now it came to pass after these things, that the king of Egypt’s chief cupbearer and chief baker offended their lord, the king of Egypt. 
40:2: So Pharaoh was angry with his two eunuchs, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker. 
40:3: Thus he put them in custody with the chief bodyguard in the prison, the place where Joseph was confined. 
40:4: Then the chief jailer committed them to Joseph, and he attended them; so they were in custody for a while. 
40:5: Then the king of Egypt’s chief cupbearer and the chief baker, who were confined in the prison, had a dream, both of them, each man’s dream in one night and each man’s dream with its own interpretation. 
40:6: So Joseph came in to them in the morning and looked at them, and saw they were troubled. 
40:7: Thus he asked Pharaoh’s eunuch’s, who were with him in the custody of his lord, saying, “Why do you look so sad today?” 
40:8: So they said to him, “We each had a dream, and there is no one to interpret it.” Then Joseph said to them, “Do not interpretations belong to God? Therefore, relate them to me.” 
40:9: Then the chief cupbearer related his dream to Joseph, and said to him, “Behold, in my dream a vine was before me, 
40:10: and in the vine were three branches; it was as though it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and its clusters brought forth ripe grapes. 
40:11: Then Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand; and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh’s cup, and placed the cup in Pharaoh’s hand.” 
40:12: And Joseph said to him, “This is the interpretation of it; the three branches are three days. 
40:13: Now within three days Pharaoh will remember your position and restore your office of chief cupbearer; and you will put Pharaoh’s cup in his hand according to the former manner, when you were his cupbearer. 
40:14: But remember me when it is well with you, and have mercy on me; make mention of me to Pharaoh, and get me out of this prison. 
40:15: For indeed I was stolen away from the land of the Hebrews; and I also have done nothing for them to put me into the dungeon.” 
40:16: When the chief baker saw the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, “I also had a dream, and there were three white baskets on my head. 
40:17: In the uppermost basket were all kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh, and the birds ate them out of the basket on my head.” 
40:18: So Joseph answered and said, “This is the interpretation of it: The three baskets are three days. 
40:19: Within three days Pharaoh will lift off your head from you and hang you on a tree; and the birds will eat your flesh from you.” 
40:20: Now it came to pass on the third day, which was Pharaoh’s birthday, that he made a feast for all his servants; and he remembered the positions of his chief cupbearer and chief baker among his servants. 
40:21: Then he restored the chief cupbearer to his position, and he placed the cup in Pharaoh’s hand. 
40:22: But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. 
40:23: Yet the chief cupbearer did not remember Joseph, but forgot him.

