27:1: Now it came to pass, when Isaac was old and his eyes were so dim he could not see, that he called Esau his older son and said to him, “My son.” And he answered him, “Here I am.” 
27:2: Then he said, “Behold now, I am old. I do not know the day of my death. 
27:3: Now therefore, take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me. 
27:4: Then make me savory food, such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, that my soul may bless you before I die.” 
27:5: Now Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his son; and Esau went to the field to hunt game for his father. 
27:6: So Rebekah spoke to Jacob her younger son, saying, “Indeed, I heard your father speak to Esau your brother, saying, 
27:7: ‘Bring me game and make savory food for me, that I may eat it and bless you in the presence of the Lord before my death.’ 
27:8: Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to what I command you. 
27:9: Go now to the sheep and bring me from there two kids, choice and good, and I will make savory food from them for your father, such as he loves. 
27:10: Then you shall take it to your father, that he may eat it, and bless you before his death.” 
27:11: Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, “Look, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth-skinned man. 
27:12: Perhaps my father will feel me, and I shall seem to be a deceiver to him; and I shall bring a curse on myself and not a blessing.” 
27:13: But his mother said to him, “Your curse be on me, my son; only obey my voice, and go, get them for me.” 
27:14: So he went and got them and brought them to his mother, and his mother made savory food, such as his father loved. 
27:15: Then Rebekah took the choice clothes of her elder son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob her younger son. 
27:16: She also put the skins of the kids on his hands and on the exposed part of his neck. 
27:17: Then she gave the savory food, and the bread she prepared, into the hands of her son Jacob. 
27:18: Thus he went to his father and said, “My father.” And he said, “Here I am. Who are you, my son?” 
27:19: Jacob said to his father, “I am Esau your firstborn; I have done just as you told me; arise, sit and eat of my game, that your soul may bless me.” 
27:20: But Isaac said to his son, “How is it you have found it so quickly, my son?” He said, “Because the Lord your God brought it to me.” 
27:21: Then Isaac said to Jacob, “Come near, that I may feel you, my son, whether you are my son Esau or not.” 
27:22: So Jacob went near to Isaac his father, and he felt him and said, “The voice is Jacob’s, but the hands are Esau’s.” 
27:23: Thus he did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau’s hands; so he blessed him. 
27:24: Then he said, “Are you my son Esau?” He said, “I am.” 
27:25: He said, “Bring your game to me, my son, and I will eat from it, that my soul may bless you.” So he brought it near to him, and he ate; and he brought him wine, and he drank. 
27:26: Then his father Isaac said to him, “Come near and kiss me, my son.” 
27:27: So he came near and kissed him; and he smelled the smell of his clothing. Thus he blessed him and said: “Surely, the smell of my son Is like the smell of a field the Lord has blessed. 
27:28: Therefore, may God give you of the dew of heaven And of the fatness of the earth, And plenty of grain and wine. 
27:29: Let peoples serve you, And nations bow down to you. Be lord over your brethren, And let your mother’s sons bow down to you. And cursed be everyone who curses you, And blessed be those who bless you.” 
27:30: Now it happened, as soon as Isaac finished blessing Jacob his son, and Jacob had scarcely gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting. 
27:31: He also had made savory food, and brought it to his father, and said to his father, “Let my father arise and eat of his son’s game, that your soul may bless me.” 
27:32: And his father Isaac said to him, “Who are you?” So he said, “I am your son, your firstborn, Esau.” 
27:33: Then Isaac trembled exceedingly, and said, “Who? Where is the one who hunted game and brought it to me? I ate all of it before you came, and I have blessed him and indeed, he shall be blessed.” 
27:34: When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with an exceedingly great and bitter cry, and said to his father, “Bless me also, O my father!” 
27:35: But he said, “Your brother came with deceit and has taken away your blessing.” 
27:36: Then Esau said, “Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright, and now look, he has taken away my blessing.” So he said, “Have you not reserved a blessing for me?” 
27:37: Then Isaac answered and said to Esau, “Indeed, I have made him your lord, and all his brethren I have given to him as servants; with grain and wine I have sustained him. What shall I do now for you, my son?” 
27:38: Esau said to his father, “Have you only one blessing, my father? Bless me me also, O my father!” But when Isaac was troubled, Esau lifted up his voice and wept. 
27:39: Then Isaac his father answered and said to him, “Behold, your dwelling shall be of the fatness of the earth, And of the dew of heaven from above. 
27:40: By your sword you shall live, And you shall serve your brother; And it shall come to pass, when you become restless, That you shall break his yoke from your neck.” 
27:41: Thus Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father blessed him; and Esau said in his mind, “Let the days of mourning for my father draw near, then I will kill my brother Jacob.” 
27:42: So the words of Esau her older son were told to Rebekah, and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said to him, “Surely, your brother Esau is threatening to kill you. 
27:43: Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee to Mesopotamia to my brother Laban in Haran. 
27:44: And stay with him a few days, until your brother’s anger 
27:45: and wrath turn away from you, and he forgets what you did to him; then I will send and bring you from there. Why should I be bereaved also of you both in one day?” 
27:46: Then Rebekah said to Isaac, “I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth; if Jacob takes a wife from the daughters of this land, what good will my life be to me?”

