29:1: Now Jacob went on his journey and came to the land of the east to Laban. 
29:2: So he looked, and saw a well in the field; and behold, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks; and a large stone was on the well’s mouth. 
29:3: Now all the flocks would be gathered there; and they would roll the stone from the well’s mouth, water the sheep, and put the stone back in its place on the well’s mouth. 
29:4: So Jacob said to them, “My brethren, where are you from?” And they said, “We are from Haran.” 
29:5: Then he said to them, “Do you know Laban the son of Nahor?” And they said, “We know him.” 
29:6: So he said to them, “Is he well?” They said, “He is well. Look, his daughter Rachel is coming with the sheep. 
29:7: Then he said, “It is still high day; it is not time for the cattle to be gathered together. Water the sheep, and go and feed them.” 
29:8: But they said, “We cannot until all the shepherds are gathered together, and they have rolled the stone from the well’s mouth; then we will water the sheep.” 
29:9: Now while he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father’s sheep, for she was a shepherdess. 
29:10: And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban, his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban, his mother’s brother, Jacob went near and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother’s brother. 
29:11: Then Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept. 
29:12: So Jacob told Rachel he was her father’s relative and Rebekah’s son, and she ran and told her father these words. 
29:13: Then it came to pass, when Laban heard the report about Jacob his sister’s son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him and kissed him, and brought him to his house. So he told Laban all these things. 
29:14: Now Laban said to him, “Surely you are my bone and my flesh.” And he stayed with him for a month. 
29:15: Then Laban said to Jacob, “Because you are my brother, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what should your wages be?” 
29:16: Now Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. 
29:17: Leah’s eyes were delicate, but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance. 
29:18: Now Jacob loved Rachel; so he said, “I will serve you seven years for Rachel your younger daughter.” 
29:19: So Laban said, “It is better that I give her to you than to another man. Stay with me.” 
29:20: So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed only a few days to him because of the love he had for her. 
29:21: Then Jacob said to Laban, “Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in to her.” 
29:22: Now Laban gathered together all the men of the place and made a wedding feast. 
29:23: Thus it came to pass in the evening, he took Leah his daughter and brought her to Jacob; and he went in to her. 
29:24: So Laban gave his maid Zilpah to his daughter Leah as a handmaiden. 
29:25: Then it came to pass in the morning, behold, it was Leah; and he said to Laban, “What is this you have done to me? Was it not for Rachel that I served you? Why then have you deceived me?” 
29:26: Laban replied, “It must not be done so in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn. 
29:27: Fulfil her week, and I will give you this one also for the service you will render me still another seven years.” 
29:28: Then Jacob did so and fulfilled her week. So he gave him his daughter Rachel as wife also. 
29:29: Laban also gave his handmaiden Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as a handmaiden. 
29:30: Then Jacob also went in to Rachel, and he loved Rachel more than Leah; and he served with Laban still another seven years. 
29:31: But when the Lord saw Leah was hated, He opened her womb; but Rachel was barren. 
29:32: So Leah conceived and bore Jacob a son, and she called his name Reuben; for she said, “The Lord has surely looked on my humiliation. Now therefore, my husband will love me.” 
29:33: Then she conceived again and bore Jacob a second son, and said, “Because the Lord heard I was hated, He has therefore given me this son also.” So she called his name, Simeon. 
29:34: She conceived again and bore a son, and said, “Now this time my husband will be on my side, because I have borne him three sons.” Therefore she called his name, Levi. 
29:35: Now she conceived again and bore a son, and said, “Now I will give thanks to the Lord.” Therefore she called his name, Judah. Then she stopped bearing.

