12:1: Now the Lord said to Abram, “Get out of your country, from your kindred and from your father’s house, to a land I will show you. 
12:2: I will make you a great nation; I will bless you and make your name great; and you shall be a blessing. 
12:3: I will bless those who bless you, and curse those who curse you; and in you all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed.” 
12:4: Then Abram departed as the Lord said to him, and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. 
12:5: So Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother’s son and all their possessions and every soul they acquired in Haran, and they departed for the land of Canaan. Thus they came to the land of Canaan. 
12:6: Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, as far as the oak of Moreh. And the Canaanites were then in the land. 
12:7: Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, “To your seed I will give this land.” And there Abram built an altar to the Lord, who appeared to him. 
12:8: So he moved from there to the mountain east of Bethel, and he pitched his tent with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; and there he built an altar to the Lord, and called on the name of the Lord. 
12:9: Then Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South. 
12:10: Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to dwell there, for the famine was severe in the land. 
12:11: So it came to pass, when he was close to entering Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, “Indeed I know you are a beautiful woman. 
12:12: Therefore it will happen, when the Egyptians see you, so they will say, ‘This is his wife’; and they will kill me, but they will let you live. 
12:13: Therefore say you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and I may live because of you.” 
12:14: So it was, when Abram came into Egypt, the Egyptians saw the woman, that she was very beautiful. 
12:15: The princes of Pharaoh also saw her and commended her to Pharaoh. Then the woman was taken to Pharaoh’s house. 
12:16: Now he treated Abram well for her sake, and gave him sheep, oxen, donkeys, male and female servants, mules and camels. 
12:17: But the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram’s wife. 
12:18: So Pharaoh called Abram and said, “What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me she was your wife? 
12:19: Why did you say, ‘She is my sister’? I might have taken her as my wife. Now therefore, here is your wife; take her and go your way.” 
12:20: So Pharaoh commanded his men concerning Abram; and they sent him away, with his wife and all he had.

