9:1: Thus God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them, “Increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and have dominion over it. 
9:2: For the dread and fear of you shall be upon all the wild animals of the earth, all the birds of heaven, all that move upon the earth, and all the fish of the sea. I have put them under your authority. 
9:3: Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. I have given you all things, even as I did the green herbs. 
9:4: But you shall not eat flesh with its lifeblood. 
9:5: Surely for your lifeblood I will demand a reckoning; from the hand of all the wild animals I will require it; and I will require the life of man at the hand of his fellow man. 
9:6: Whoever sheds man’s blood, by man his blood shall be shed; because I made man in God’s image. 
9:7: So then, increase and multiply; and fill the earth and have dominion over it.” 
9:8: Then God spoke to Noah and his sons with him, saying, 
9:9: “Behold, I am establishing My covenant with you and with your seed after you, 
9:10: and every living creature with you: the birds, the cattle, and all the wild animals of the earth, of all that came out of the ark with you. 
9:11: Thus I will establish My covenant with you, and never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood; nor shall there ever again be a flood to destroy the earth.” 
9:12: Then the Lord God said to Noah, “This is the sign of the covenant I am making between Me and you, and every living creature with you, for perpetual generations: 
9:13: I am setting My rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between Me and the earth. 
9:14: It shall be, when I bring a cloud over the earth, the rainbow shall be seen in the cloud; 
9:15: and I will remember My covenant between Me and you and every living creature of all flesh; the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. 
9:16: My rainbow shall be in the cloud, and I will certainly remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh on the earth.” 
9:17: Again God said to Noah, “This is the sign of the covenant I established between Me and all flesh on the earth.” 
9:18: Now the sons of Noah who went out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and Ham was the father of Canaan. 
9:19: These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the whole earth was populated. 
9:20: Then Noah began to be a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard. 
9:21: So he drank of the wine and was drunk and naked in his house. 
9:22: Now Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. 
9:23: But Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders, and walking backwards they covered their father’s nakedness. Since their faces were turned away, they did not see his nakedness. 
9:24: Thus when Noah became sober and knew what his younger son had done, 
9:25: he said, “Cursed be Canaan; A servant of servants shall he be to his brothers.” 
9:26: He also said, “Blessed be the Lord God of Shem, And Canaan shall be his servant. 
9:27: “May God enlarge Japheth, And let him dwell in the habitations of Shem. Let Canaan be his servant as well.” 
9:28: Now Noah lived three hundred and fifty years after the flood. 
9:29: So all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years, and he died.

