45:1: Now Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood by him, and he cried out, “Make everyone go out from me!” So no one stood with him while Joseph made himself known to his brothers. 
45:2: Then he wept aloud, and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard it. 
45:3: Joseph then said to his brothers, “I am Joseph; does my father still live?” But his brothers could not answer him, for they were stunned in his presence. 
45:4: But Joseph said to his brothers, “Come near to me.” So they came near. Then he said, “I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. 
45:5: Now therefore, do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here; for God sent me before you to save life. 
45:6: For this is the second year of famine in the land, and five years still remain in which there will be neither plowing nor harvesting. 
45:7: For God sent me before you to preserve you as a remnant on the earth, and to sustain you as a great remnant. 
45:8: So now, it was not you who sent me here, but God; and He made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. 
45:9: “Hurry then and go up to my father, and say to him, ‘Thus says your son Joseph, “God made me lord of all Egypt; come down to me, do not tarry. 
45:10: You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near to me, you and your children, your children’s children, your sheep and oxen, and all you have. 
45:11: There I will provide for you, lest you and your household, and all you have, come to poverty; for five years of famine still remain.” ’ 
45:12: And behold, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see it is my mouth that speaks to you. 
45:13: Therefore, you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all you have seen; and you shall hurry and bring my father down here.” 
45:14: Then he fell on his brother Benjamin’s neck and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck. 
45:15: Moreover he kissed all his brothers and wept over them, and after this his brothers talked with him. 
45:16: Now the report of it was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying, “Joseph’s brothers have come.” So it pleased Pharaoh and his servants well. 
45:17: So Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Say to your brothers, ‘Do this, load your conveyances and depart; go to the land of Canaan. 
45:18: Bring your father and your households and come to me; I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land. 
45:19: Now you are commanded do this, take carts out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and your wives; bring your father and come. 
45:20: Also do not be concerned about your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.’ ” 
45:21: Thus the sons of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them carts, according to the command of Pharaoh, and he gave them provisions for the journey. 
45:22: He gave to all of them, to each man, two changes of garments; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of gold and five changes of exceptionally fine garments. 
45:23: He also sent to his father these things: ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten mules loaded with grain, bread, and food for his father for the journey. 
45:24: So he sent his brothers away, and they departed; and he said to them, “See that you do not become angry with each other along the way.” 
45:25: Then they went up out of Egypt, and came to the land of Canaan to Jacob their father. 
45:26: Thus they told him, saying, “Joseph your son is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.” But Jacob’s mind was completely stunned, for he could not believe them. 
45:27: But when they told him all the words Joseph said to them, and when he saw the carts Joseph sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived. 
45:28: Then Israel said, “It is a great thing to me that my son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.”

