3:1: The prayer of the prophet Habakkuk, with an Ode. 
3:2: Lord, I have heard Your report and was afraid; I considered your works and was greatly astonished. You shall be known between the two living creatures, In the approaching years You shall be acknowledged; You will be revealed when the time comes. When my soul is troubled; You will in wrath remember mercy. 
3:3: God will come from Teman, The Holy One from the mount of shaded leafy trees. Pause. His excellence covered the heavens, And the earth was full of His praise. 
3:4: His brightness will be like the light; Horns will be in His hand, And He established a mighty love of His strength. 
3:5: Before His face a word will go forth; It will go out by the shoes of His feet. 
3:6: The earth stood and was shaken to and fro; He looked and the nations melted away. The mountains were shattered by force; The everlasting hills wasted away. 
3:7: In the place of distresses, I saw His eternal ways. The tents of the Ethiopians will be dismayed, Even the tents of the land of Midian. 
3:8: Were you angry, O Lord, with the rivers? Or was Your wrath against the rivers, Or was Your fury against the sea; That You will mount on Your horses, And Your chariot is salvation? 
3:9: “You will stretch your bow against sceptres,” says the Lord. The land of rivers shall be torn asunder. 
3:10: Many peoples will see you and be in travail, Dispersing waters from its course. The abyss uttered its voice; Raising its form on high. 
3:11: The sun arose, and the moon stood in its course; At the light of Your arrows they went forth, At the flashing of Your gleaming weapons. 
3:12: You will bring low the land with threatening, You will break the nations in wrath. 
3:13: You went forth for the salvation of Your people, To save Your anointed ones. You brought death upon the heads of the lawless, You brought bonds upon their neck. Pause. 
3:14: You cut off the heads of rulers in amazement, They shall tremble in it. They will break their bridles, Like a poor man eating secretly. 
3:15: You ran your horses into the sea, Churning up the many waters. 
3:16: I kept watch, and my belly trembled From the sound of the prayer of my lips; And trembling penetrated into my bones. And my very frame of mind was troubled. I shall rest in the day of tribulation, To go up to the people of my sojourn. 
3:17: For though the fig tree will not bear fruit, And there be no grapes on the vines; The labor of the olive tree fail, And the fields yield no food; Though the sheep have no pasture, And there be no oxen in the cribs; 
3:18: Yet I will glory in the Lord; I will rejoice in God my Savior. 
3:19: The Lord God is my strength; He will direct my feet to the end, He will set me upon high places, So to conquer by his song.

