2:1: In the seventh month, on the twenty-first of the month, the LORD spoke by Haggai the prophet, saying, 
2:2: “Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel from the tribe of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, saying: 
2:3: ‘Who among you saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Is this not in your eyes as being nothing? 
2:4: ‘Yet now be strong, Zerubbabel’ says the Lord; ‘be strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, all you people of the land,’ says the LORD, ‘and work; for I am with you,’ says the LORD Almighty. 
2:5: ‘And My Spirit remains among you; take courage!’ 
2:6: “For thus says the LORD Almighty, ‘Once more I shall shake heaven and earth, the sea and dry land; 
2:7: and I shall shake all nations, and the choice things of all the nations shall come in, and I shall fill this house with glory,’ says the LORD Almighty. 
2:8: ‘The silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine,’ says the LORD Almighty. 
2:9: ‘The glory of this latter house shall be greater than the former,’ says the LORD Almighty. ‘And in this place I will give peace,’ says the LORD Almighty, ‘and peace of soul for a possession to everyone who builds and raises this temple.’ ” 
2:10: On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to Haggai the prophet, saying, 
2:11: “Thus says the LORD Almighty: ‘Now, ask the priests concerning the law, saying, 
2:12: “If one carries holy meat in the fold of his garment, and the edge touches bread or stew, wine or oil, or any food, will it become holy?” ’ ” Then the priests answered and said, “No.” 
2:13: And Haggai said, “If one who is unclean because of a dead body touches any of these, will it be unclean?” So the priests answered and said, “It shall be unclean.” 
2:14: Then Haggai answered and said, “ ‘So is this people, so is this nation before Me,’ says the LORD, ‘and so are all the works of their hands. Whoever comes near them shall be unclean because of their early burdens; they shall be distressed because of their toils; and you have hated him who rebukes in the gates. 
2:15: ‘And now consider from this day forward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the LORD, 
2:16: what manner of people you were; when you put twenty ephahs of barley into the bin, and there were but ten; when you came to the wine vat to draw out fifty measures from the press, but only twenty were there. 
2:17: I struck you with bareness and blight and hail in all the labors of your hands; yet you did not turn to Me,’ says the LORD. 
2:18: ‘Establish your hearts from this day forward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day the foundation of the LORD’s temple was laid. Give careful thought to this: 
2:19: Is the seed still on the threshing floor? And as yet, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have not yielded fruit”? But from this day I shall bless you.’ ” 
2:20: And again the word of the LORD came to Haggai the prophet a second time on the twentyfourth day of the month, saying, 
2:21: “Speak to Zerubbabel, from the tribe of Judah, saying, ‘I shall shake heaven and earth and the sea and the dry land. 
2:22: I shall overthrow the thrones of kings and I will destroy the power of the kings of the nations, and I shall overthrow both chariots and riders. The horses and their riders will come down; everyone by the sword of his brother. 
2:23: In that day, says the LORD Almighty, ‘I shall take you, Zerubbabel, My servant, the son of Shealtiel,’ says the LORD, ‘and shall make you like a signet ring; for I have chosen you.’ ”

