9:1: Rejoice not, O Israel, Neither make merry, as other peoples, For you have gone a-whoring from your God. You have loved for hire Upon every threshing floor of wheat. 
9:2: The threshing floor and winepress did not know them, And the wine disappointed them. 
9:3: They did not dwell in the Lord’s land. Ephraim dwelt in Egypt, And they shall eat unclean things Among the Assyrians. 
9:4: They have not offered wine to the Lord, Neither have their sacrifices been pleasing to Him, But like the mourning bread to them. All that eat shall be defiled Because their bread shall be for their own life; It shall not come into the house of the Lord. 
9:5: What will you do in the day of public festival And in the day of the Lord’s feast? 
9:6: Therefore, behold, they go forth from the trouble of Egypt. Mem phis shall receive them And Machmas shall bury them. As for their silver, destruction shall inherit it, And thorns shall be in their tents. 
9:7: The days of vengeance have come; The days of your recompense have come; And Israel shall be afflicted As the prophet that is mad, as a man deranged. By reason of the multitude of your wrongdoings Your madness has abounded. 
9:8: The watchman of Ephraim was with God, But the prophet is a crooked snare in all his ways. They have planted the madness firmly In the house of God. 
9:9: They have corrupted themselves As in the days of Gibeah. He will remember his wrongdoings; He will take vengeance on his sins. 
9:10: “I found Israel as grapes in the wilderness, And I saw their fathers as an early guard at their fig tree. They went into Baal Peor And were shamefully estranged; And the beloved ones became abominable. 
9:11: The glory of Ephraim has flown away as a bird: Their glories from birth, birth-pains, and conception. 
9:12: For Even if they should rear their children, Yet they shall be utterly bereaved. For woe to them! My flesh is of them. 
9:13: Ephraim, Even as I saw, Presented their children as a prey; Ephraim was ready to bring out his children to slaughter.” 
9:14: Give to them, O Lord! What will You give to them? A childless womb and dry breasts. 
9:15: “All their evils are in Gilgal, For there I hated them. Because of their evil practices, I will cast them out of My house. I will not love the many more. All their leaders are disobedient. 
9:16: Ephraim underwent trouble; He is dried up at his roots; He shall bear fruit no more. Wherefore, even if they should beget children, I would kill the desired fruit of their womb.” 
9:17: God shall reject them Because they have not hearkened to Him. So they shall be wanderers Among the nations.

