7:1: “When I have healed Israel, Then shall the wrongdoing of Ephraim And the evil of Samaria be revealed, For they have worked falsehood. A thief shall come in to him, Even a robber taking spoil in his way, 
7:2: That they may sing together As men singing in their heart. I remember all their evils; Now their own counsels have encircled them; They were before My face. 
7:3: They gladdened kings with their evils And princes with their lies. 
7:4: “They are all adulterers, Like an oven heated for cooking, Burning with a flame during the kneading of the dough Until it is leavened. 
7:5: In the days of our kings, The princes began to be inflamed with wine; He stretched out his hand with pestilent fellows. 
7:6: Wherefore their hearts are inflamed like an oven While they were falling down all the night. Ephraim is satisfied with sleep; The morning is come; He is burnt up like a flame of fire. 
7:7: They are all heated like an oven And have devoured their judges. All their kings are fallen; There was not Among them one that called upon Me. 
7:8: “Ephraim is mixed Among his peoples; Ephraim became a cake not turned. 
7:9: Strangers devoured his strength, And he knew it not. Grey hairs came upon him, And he knew it not. 
7:10: The pride of Israel shall be humbled before his face; Yet they have not returned to the Lord their God, Neither have they diligently sought Him in spite of all this. 
7:11: “Ephraim was like a silly dove, not having a heart; He called to Egypt, and they went to the Assyrians. 
7:12: Whenever they shall go, I will cast My net upon them; I will bring them down as the birds of the sky. I will chastise them through the news of their affliction. 
7:13: “Woe to them, for they have turned away from Me! They are cowards, For they have committed impious deeds against Me. Yet I redeemed them, But they spoke falsehoods against Me. 
7:14: Their hearts did not cry aloud to Me, But they wailed upon their beds. “They slashed themselves for oil and wine; They were chastised by Me. 
7:15: I strengthened their arms, But they devised evils against Me. 
7:16: They turned aside to nothing; They became as a stretched bow. Their princes shall fall by the sword; They will be despised in the land of Egypt Because of their unrestrained tongue.

