2:1: “Say to your brother, ‘My People,’ And to your sister, ‘Pitied.’ 
2:2: “Plead with your mother, plead, For she is not My wife, And I am not her Husband. I will remove her fornication out of My presence And her adultery from between her breasts, 
2:3: That I may strip her naked And make her again as she was at the day of her birth. I will make her desolate and as a dry land, And I will kill her with thirst. 
2:4: “I will not have mercy upon her children; For they are children of fornication. 
2:5: For their mother went a-whoring. She that bore them disgraced herself, For she said, ‘I will go after my lovers, Who give me my bread and my water, And my garments and my linen clothes, My oil and my necessities.’ 
2:6: “Therefore, behold, I will hedge up her way with thorns. I will stop the ways so she shall not find her path. 
2:7: She will follow after her lovers But not overtake them. She will seek them but not find them. She will say, ‘I will go and return to my former husband; For it was better for me than now.’ 
2:8: For she did not know I gave her corn, wine, and oil, And multiplied silver to her; But she turned the silver and gold over to Baal. 
2:9: “Therefore I will take back My corn in its season, And My wine in its time. I will remove My raiment and My linen clothes That she may not cover her nakedness. 
2:10: Now I will expose her uncleanness before her lovers, And no one shall by any means Deliver her out of My hand. 
2:11: I will take away all her gladness, her feasts, And her festivals at the New Moon, And her Sabbaths, And all her solemn assemblies. 
2:12: “I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, All things of which she said, ‘These are my wages that my lovers have given me.’ But I will make them a testimony; And the wild beasts of the field, the birds of the sky, And the reptiles of the earth shall devour them. 
2:13: I will repay her for the days of Baalim, Wherein she sacrificed to them, And put on her earrings and her necklaces, And went after her lovers; But she forgot Me,” says the Lord. 
2:14: “Therefore, behold, I will lead her astray And make her as desolate, And I will speak to her heart. 
2:15: I will give her possessions from there, And the Valley of Achor to open her understanding. She will be humbled there According to the days of her infancy, And according to the days of her coming up Out of the land of Egypt. 
2:16: “Then it shall come to pass in that day,” Says the Lord, “That she will call Me ‘My Husband,’ And shall no longer call Me ‘Baalim.’ 
2:17: For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, And their names shall be remembered no more. 
2:18: In that day I will make a covenant for them With the wild beasts of the field, And with the birds of the sky, And with the reptiles of the earth. I will break the bow, the sword, and the battle from off the earth, And will cause them to dwell safely. 
2:19: “I will betroth you to Myself forever; Yes, I will betroth you to Myself In righteousness and justice, And in mercy and compassions. 
2:20: I will betroth you to Myself in faithfulness, And you shall know the Lord. 
2:21: “It shall come to pass in that day,” says the Lord, “That I will listen to heaven, And it shall listen to the earth. 
2:22: The earth shall listen to the corn, And the wine, and the oil; And they shall listen to Jezreel. 
2:23: I will sow her to Myself on the earth, And will love her that was not loved, And will say to that which was not My people, ‘You are My people!’ And they shall say, ‘You are the Lord my God!’ ”

