10:1: Israel is a luxuriant vine; Her fruit is abundant. According to the multitude of her fruits She has multiplied her altars; According to the wealth of his land He has set up pillars. 
10:2: They have divided their hearts; Now shall they be utterly destroyed. He shall raze their altars to the ground; Their pillars shall experience distress. 
10:3: For now they will say, “We have no king, Since we did not fear the Lord. As for a king, what he do for us?” 
10:4: As he speaks words with false motives, He would make a covenant. Thus judgment will spring up As a weed on the soil of the field. 
10:5: The inhabitants of Sam aria Shall dwell near the calf of Beth Aven, For its people mourned for it. To the degree that they rebelled against it, So they will rejoice at its glory Because it was removed from them. 
10:6: For they bound it up for the Assyrians And carried it away as a gift to King Jareb. Ephraim shall receive it as a gift, And Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. 
10:7: Sam aria has cast off her king Like a twig on the surface of the water, 
10:8: And the altars of Aven, the sins of Israel, Shall be removed. Thorns and thistles shall come upon their altars, And they shall say to the mountains, “Cover us,” And to the hills, “Fall on us.” 
10:9: “From the days of Gibeah, Israel has sinned; There they stood. The war on that hill against the children of unrighteousness Did not overtake them. 
10:10: I came to chastise them, And peoples shall be gathered against them When they are chastised for their two sins. 
10:11: Ephraim is a heifer taught to love victory, But I will come upon the fairest part of her neck. I will mount Ephraim; I will pass over Judah in silence; Jacob shall prevail against him.” 
10:12: Sow to yourselves in righteousness; Gather in the fruit of life; Light for yourselves the light of knowledge; Seek the Lord till the fruits of righteousness come upon you. 
10:13: Why have you passed over ungodliness in silence And reaped its wrongdoings? You have eaten the fruit of deception, For you have hoped in your chariots, In the abundance of your power. 
10:14: Therefore destruction shall rise up Among your people, And all your walled places shall be gone, As Beth Arbel in the time of Prince Shalman. In the days of battle, They dashed the mother to the ground upon the children. 
10:15: Thus will I do to you, O house of Israel, Because of your evil deeds. Early in the morning were they cast off; The king of Israel has been cast off.

