60:1: “Shine, shine, O Jerusalem, for your light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon you. 
60:2: Behold, darkness and gloom shall cover the earth upon the nations, but the Lord will shine on you; and His glory shall be seen upon you. 
60:3: Kings shall come to your light, and the Gentiles to your brightness. 
60:4: Lift up your eyes all around, and see your children gathered together. Behold, all your sons come from afar, and your daughters shall be lifted upon their shoulders. 
60:5: Then you will see, fear and be amazed in your heart, because the wealth of the sea and of nations and peoples shall change their course and turn to you. 
60:6: Herds of camels shall come to you, and the camels of Midian and Ephah shall cover you. All those from Sheba shall come bearing gold, and they shall bring frankincense and proclaim the good news of the Lord’s salvation. 
60:7: All the sheep of Kedar shall be gathered together to you, and the rams of Nebaioth shall come to you. They shall offer acceptable sacrifices upon My altar, and My house of prayer shall be glorified. 
60:8: Who are these who fly like clouds and like doves with young? 
60:9: The coastlands waited for Me, and the ships of Tarshish among the first, to bring your children from afar, and silver and gold with them for the sake of the Lord’s name, and because the Holy One of Israel is glorified. 
60:10: Foreigners shall build your walls, and their kings shall defend you; for I struck you because of My wrath, and I loved you because of My mercy. 
60:11: Your gates shall be opened continually, and they shall not be shut day or night, to bring you the power of the Gentiles, and their kings leading them. 
60:12: For the nations and their kings who will not serve you shall perish, and those nations will be utterly desolate. 
60:13: The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, with the cypress, the pine, and the cedar together, to glorify My holy place. 
60:14: The sons of those who humbled and provoked you shall go to you in fear, and you shall be called City of the Lord, Zion of the Holy One of Israel. 
60:15: Because you were forsaken and hated, and there was no one to help you, therefore I will make you an eternal joy, the gladness of generations to generations. 
60:16: You shall drink the milk of the Gentiles and eat the wealth of kings. You shall know I am the Lord who saves you and the God of Israel who delivers you. 
60:17: Instead of bronze, I will bring you gold, and instead of iron, I will bring you silver, and instead of wood, I will bring you bronze, and instead of stones, iron. I will establish your rulers in peace and your bishops in righteousness. 
60:18: Unrighteousness shall no longer be heard in your land, neither destruction nor distress within your boundaries, but your walls shall be called Salvation, and your gates Sculptured Work. 
60:19: The sun shall no longer be your light by day, nor shall the rising of the moon shine on you at night, but the Lord shall be your everlasting light, and God, your glory. 
60:20: For your sun shall no longer set, nor shall your moon be eclipsed, for the Lord shall be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning shall be fulfilled. 
60:21: Also your people shall all be righteous, and they shall inherit the land forever, guarding what they planted, the works of their hands, for glory. 
60:22: The few in number shall become thousands, and the lesser shall become a great nation. I the Lord will gather them together at the appointed time.

