55:1: “You who are thirsty, go to the water, and all who have no money, go and buy wine and fat, and eat and drink without money and price. 
55:2: Why do you value at the price of money, and give your toil for what does not satisfy? Listen to Me and eat good things, and your soul will delight in good things. 
55:3: Incline your ears and follow my ways. Listen to Me, and your soul shall live in good things; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, the holy and faithful things of David. 
55:4: Behold, I made him a witness among the Gentiles, a ruler and commander to the Gentiles. 
55:5: The Gentiles, which did not know you, shall call upon you, and the peoples who did not understand you shall take refuge in you, because of your God, the Holy One of Israel; for He glorified you.” 
55:6: Seek God, and when you find Him, call upon Him when He draws near to you. 
55:7: Let the ungodly man abandon his ways, and the lawless man his counsels; and let him return to the Lord, and He will have mercy on him; for He shall forgive your sins abundantly. 
55:8: “For My counsels are not as your counsels, neither are your ways My ways,” says the Lord. 
55:9: “But as heaven is distant from earth, so is My way distant from your ways, and your thoughts from My mind. 
55:10: For as rain comes down, or snow from heaven, and does not return until it saturates the earth, and it brings forth and produces, and gives seed to the sower and bread for food, 
55:11: so shall My word be, whatever proceeds from My mouth. It shall not return until it accomplishes whatever I willed, and I shall prosper your ways and My commandments. 
55:12: For you shall go forth with gladness and shall be taught with joy, for the mountains and hills shall exult to receive you with joy; and all the trees of the field shall applaud with their branches. 
55:13: Instead of the broom-tree shall come up the cypress, and instead of the nettle shall come up the myrtle; and the Lord shall be for a name and for an everlasting sign, and He shall not fail.”

