8:1: Moreover the Lord said to me, “Take for yourself a large new book, and write on it with a man’s pen concerning making a swift plunder of spoils, for it is near at hand. 
8:2: Then make witnesses for Me of faithful men: Uriah and Zechariah, the son of Berechiah.” 
8:3: Then I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son, and the Lord said to me, “Call his name Quickly Despoil, Swiftly Plunder; 
8:4: for before the child shall know how to call for his father and mother, one shall take the power of Damascus and the spoils of Samaria in the presence of the king of Assyria.” 
8:5: The Lord also added this for me to speak as well, saying: 
8:6: “Because this people did not choose the water of Siloam that flows quietly, but chose Rezin and Remaliah’s son to be king over you; 
8:7: therefore, behold, the Lord brings upon you the mighty and abundant water of the river, the king of the Assyrians, and his glory. He shall come up over every ravine of yours and walk over all your walls, 
8:8: and take away from Judah every man able to raise his head or accomplish anything. His encampment will fill the breadth of Your land, O God with us. 
8:9: Know this, O Gentiles, and be defeated. Give ear, all you to the very ends of the earth. Be defeated although you are strong, for even if you should be strong again, you will be defeated again. 
8:10: Then too, whatever counsel you take, the Lord will scatter it abroad; and whatever word you shall speak, it will not continue among you, for the Lord God is with us.” 
8:11: Thus says the Lord: “With a strong hand they rebel against the course of the way of this people, saying, 
8:12: that you should not say, ‘It is hard,’ for whatever this people says is hard; but do not be afraid of their terror, nor be troubled. 
8:13: Sanctify the Lord Himself, and He shall be your fear. 
8:14: So if you trust in Him, He shall be as a sanctuary for you, and you shall not come against Him as a stumbling stone nor as a rock of disaster. But the house of Jacob lies in wait with a snare, and those in Jerusalem with a trap. 
8:15: Therefore many among them shall be powerless and fall, and be broken, and men who are in safety shall draw near and be conquered.” 
8:16: Then they who seal the law so as not to learn it themselves shall be evident. 
8:17: But One will say, “I shall wait for God who turned His face away from the house of Jacob, and I will trust in Him, 
8:18: behold, I and the children God gave me.” This will be for signs and wonders in the house of Israel from the Lord of hosts, who dwells in Mount Zion. 
8:19: So if they should say to you, “Seek those who call from the earth and are ventriloquists, who speak from the belly,” should not a nation seek their God? Why do they seek the dead on behalf of the living? 
8:20: He gave the law to help them, so as not to speak such a word as this, concerning which word there are no gifts to offer with it. 
8:21: Thus a harsh famine will come upon you, and it shall be, when you are hungry, you will be grieved, and speak badly of your ruler and the idols. Then they shall look up to heaven above, 
8:22: and on the earth below, and behold, tribulation, distress, and darkness. There will be severe despair and darkness, so dark one cannot see. 
8:23: And the one who is in despair shall be perplexed, but only for a time.

