24:1: Behold, the Lord is about to lay waste the inhabited earth, and He will make it desolate, lay bare its surface, and scatter those who dwell therein. 
24:2: And it shall be that the people shall be as the priest, the servant as the lord, the maiden as the mistress, the buyer as the seller, the lender as the borrower, and the debtor as the creditor. 
24:3: The earth shall be completely laid waste and utterly plundered, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken these things. 
24:4: The earth mourns and the inhabited earth is ruined; the lofty of the earth mourn. 
24:5: The earth acts lawlessly because of its inhabitants, for they transgressed the law and changed the ordinances, the everlasting covenant. 
24:6: Therefore a curse shall devour the earth, because those who dwell in it sinned. Therefore the inhabitants of the earth shall be poor, and few people will be left. 
24:7: The wine shall mourn, the vine shall mourn, and all the merryhearted will groan. 
24:8: The mirth of tambourines, the willfulness and wealth of the ungodly, and the sound of the harp have ceased. 
24:9: They were ashamed; they did not drink wine; strong drink is bitter to those who drink it. 
24:10: Every city was made desolate; every house is shut up, that none may go in. 
24:11: Wail for wine everywhere; all gladness of the earth is gone! 
24:12: Cities shall be left desolate, and abandoned houses will be destroyed. 
24:13: All these things shall be in the earth in the midst of the nations, in the manner someone would glean an olive tree. Thus they shall glean them when the harvest is done. 
24:14: They shall cry aloud, and those left behind on the earth shall be glad together in the glory of the Lord. The water of the sea shall be troubled. 
24:15: Therefore the glory of the Lord will be in the islands of the sea; the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, will be glorious. 
24:16: From the ends of the earth we heard wonderful things, and there is hope for the godly man. They will say, “Woe to the rejecters, who reject the law!” 
24:17: Fear, a pit, and a snare are upon you who dwell on the earth. 
24:18: It shall be that he who flees from the fear shall fall into the pit, and he who comes up from the midst of the pit shall be caught in the snare; for the windows of heaven are opened, and the foundations of the earth shall be shaken. 
24:19: The earth shall be completely troubled, and the earth will be completely perplexed. 
24:20: The earth bends and will be shaken like a hut, and like a drunkard overpowered with wine; and it shall fall and be unable to stand, for lawlessness is upon it. 
24:21: Then God will bring His hand upon the host of heaven and upon the kings of the earth. 
24:22: They will gather them and close them in a fortress and in a prison; and after many generations they shall be visited. 
24:23: And the brick will melt and the wall shall fall, for the Lord will reign in Zion and in Jerusalem, and will be glorified before His elders.

