37:1: Thus it came to pass, when King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the Lord. 
37:2: Then he sent Eliakim the steward, Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz. 
37:3: So they said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah: ‘This day is a day of affliction, disgrace, rebuke, and wrath; for the pangs of childbirth have come, but there is no strength to give birth. 
37:4: May the Lord your God hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom the king of the Assyrians sent to denounce the living God, and to insult Him with words which the Lord your God heard. Therefore you shall pray to the Lord your God for the remnant that is left.’ ” 
37:5: So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, 
37:6: and Isaiah said to them, “Thus shall you say to your lord: ‘The Lord says this, “Do not be afraid of the words you heard, whereby the ambassadors of the king of the Assyrians denounced Me. 
37:7: Behold, I will send a spirit upon him, and he shall hear a rumor and return to his land. Then he will fall by the sword in his own land.” ’ ” 
37:8: So Rabshakeh returned and found the king warring against Libnah. Then the king of the Assyrians heard that 
37:9: Tirhakah king of the Ethiopians had come out to make war against him. So when he heard it, he returned and sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying, 
37:10: “Thus you shall speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, ‘Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, “Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of the Assyrians.” 
37:11: You heard what the kings of the Assyrians did to all lands by destroying them. 
37:12: Did the gods of the nations deliver those my fathers destroyed—Gozan and Haran and Rezeph in the country of Telassar? 
37:13: Where are the kings of Hamath and Arpad, and the kings of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah?’ ” 
37:14: So Hezekiah received the scroll from the messengers and opened it before the Lord. 
37:15: Then Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, saying, 
37:16: “O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, the One who sits between the cherubim, You alone are the God of all the kingdoms of the world. You made heaven and earth. 
37:17: Hear, O Lord, and open Your eyes, O Lord, and see the words Sennacherib sent to denounce the living God. 
37:18: For it is true, the kings of the Assyrians laid waste the inhabited earth and their countries, 
37:19: and cast their idols into the fire; for they were not gods, but works of men’s hands—wood and stone. Therefore they destroyed them. 
37:20: But now, O Lord our God, save us from their hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know You alone are God.” 
37:21: Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah and said to him, “The Lord God of Israel says this: ‘I heard what you prayed to Me against Sennacherib king of the Assyrians. 
37:22: This is the word God has spoken concerning him: “The virgin daughter of Zion has despised and laughed you to scorn. The daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head at you. 
37:23: Whom have you denounced and provoked? Or against whom have you raised your voice? You have lifted your eyes on high against the Holy One of Israel. 
37:24: By your messengers, you have insulted the Lord, for you said, ‘By the multitude of my chariots I came to the height of the mountains, to the limits of Lebanon. I cut down its tall cedars and its choice cypress trees, and entered the height of its forest region. 
37:25: I built a bridge, and dried up the waters and every pool of water.’ 
37:26: Did you not hear long ago the things I did? From ancient times I appointed them, but now have manifested my purpose to desolate nations in their strongholds and those who dwell in strong cities. 
37:27: I weakened their hands, and they withered; and they became like dry grass on the housetops and like weeds. 
37:28: Now then, I know your resting place, your going out and your coming in. 
37:29: Your great rage and bitterness has come up to Me. Therefore I will put a hook in your nose and a bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way you came.’ ” 
37:30: This shall be a sign to you: You shall eat this year what you sowed, and the second year what is left over; also in the third year sow and reap; plant vineyards and eat the fruit of them. 
37:31: So the remnant in the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
37:32: For out of Jerusalem a remnant shall go forth, and those saved from Mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform these things. 
37:33: Therefore, thus says the Lord concerning the king of the Assyrians: ‘He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor build a siege mound against it. 
37:34: By the way he came, by the same shall he return,’ says the Lord. 
37:35: ‘I will protect this city, to save it for My own sake and for My servant David’s sake.’ ” 
37:36: Then the Angel of the Lord went out and killed in the camp of the Assyrians one hundred and eighty-five thousand; and when people arose early in the morning, they discovered all the dead bodies. 
37:37: Then Sennacherib king of the Assyrians departed and returned to Nineveh, and dwelt there. 
37:38: Now it came to pass, as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, his sons Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him down with the sword, then escaped into the land of Ararat; and Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.

