38:1: In those days Hezekiah was sick and near death. Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, went to him and said, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.’ ” 
38:2: Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed to the Lord, 
38:3: and said, “Remember now, O Lord, I pray, how I have walked before You in truth and with a true heart, and did what is pleasing in Your sight.” So Hezekiah wept loudly. 
38:4: Then the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, saying, 
38:5: “Go and tell Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: “I heard your prayer, I see your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life. 
38:6: I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of the Assyrians, and I will protect this city. 
38:7: Now this shall be the sign to you from the Lord, that God will do this thing: 
38:8: I will turn back the shadow on the ten steps of your father’s house—the steps on which the sun goes down.” ’ ” So the sun’s shadow that went down on the ten steps turned back. 
38:9: The prayer of Hezekiah king of Judah when he was sick and recovered from his sickness: 
38:10: “I said at the end of my days near the gates of Hades, ‘I shall leave behind the remainder of my years.’ 
38:11: I said, ‘I shall no longer see the salvation of my God upon the earth; I shall no longer see a man among my kindred.’ 
38:12: I left behind what remained of my life. It went away and departed from me like one who takes down a tent. My breath became in me like the web of a weaver when she draws near to cut it. 
38:13: On that day I was given as to a lion until morning. So He broke my bones, for from day until night I was given over. 
38:14: Like a swallow, so shall I cry; I will mourn like a dove. My eyes fail from looking to the height of heaven toward the Lord, who delivered me 
38:15: and removed the pain of my soul. 
38:16: O Lord, it was told You concerning this, and You revived my breath; and I was comforted and lived. 
38:17: For You chose my soul that it should not perish, and You cast all my sins behind me. 
38:18: For those in Hades shall not praise You, neither will the dead bless You; nor shall those in Hades hope for Your mercy. 
38:19: The living shall praise You as I do. For from this day forward, I shall cause children to declare Your righteousness, O Lord of my salvation, 
38:20: and I shall not cease to bless You with the psaltery all the days of my life before the house of God.” 
38:21: Now Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Take a cake of figs, mash them, and apply them as a plaster, and you shall recover.” 
38:22: Then Hezekiah said, “This is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the Lord God.”

