16:1: “I shall send them like reptiles upon the land, for is not Mount Zion a deserted rock? 
16:2: O Daughter of Moab, you shall be like a young bird taken away from a bird that has flown. Then, O Arnon, 
16:3: take more counsel and make for her a shelter of mourning continually. In the middle of the day they flee in darkness; they are amazed; do not be led away. 
16:4: The outcasts of Moab will sojourn with you. They will shelter you from the face of the pursuer, for your alliance has been taken away, and the ruler who trampled the land underfoot has perished from the earth. 
16:5: A throne will be established with mercy, and in the tabernacle of David, one will sit upon it in truth, judging, seeking justice, and hastening righteousness.” 
16:6: We heard of the insolence of Moab, exceedingly insolent. You drove away his arrogance. Your divination is not in this way, 
16:7: no not in this way. Moab shall wail, for everyone shall wail in the land of Moab. For you will think about those who dwell in Deseth, and not be ashamed. 
16:8: The plains of Heshbon and the vine of Sibmah swallow the nations and shall mourn. Trample down her vines. Do not reach to Jazer. Wander in the desert. Those sent were left behind, for they passed through the desert. 
16:9: Therefore I will weep for the vine of Sibmah with the weeping of Jazer. O Heshbon and Elealeh, he struck down your trees, for I shall trample on your harvest and vintage, and both shall fall. 
16:10: Gladness is taken away, so too the joy from your vineyards, for in the vineyards there shall be no rejoicing; and no treaders will tread out wine in the wine vats, for the wine has ceased. 
16:11: Therefore my belly will resound like a harp for Moab, and my inward parts like a wall you renewed. 
16:12: Then it shall come to pass, when you are shamed (for Moab grows weary at his altars), that he will go in to pray to the things made with hands, but they will be unable to deliver him. 
16:13: This is the word the Lord spoke against Moab when He spoke. 
16:14: “So now I say to you, within three years, as in the years of a hired man, the glory of Moab, with its great wealth, shall be dishonored, and he will be left few in number and not honored.”

