34:1: Come near, you nations, and listen, you rulers. Let the earth hear and those in it, the inhabited earth and the people therein. 
34:2: For the anger of the Lord is against all the nations, and His wrath against all the number of them, to destroy them utterly and to deliver them over for slaughter. 
34:3: Their slain and their dead shall be thrown out; their stench shall rise from their dead bodies, and the mountains shall be drenched with their blood. 
34:4: Heaven shall also be rolled up like a scroll, and all the stars shall fall like leaves from a vine, as leaves fall from a fig tree. 
34:5: My sword in heaven is soaked with blood. Behold, it shall come down on Edom, and with judgment on the people of destruction. 
34:6: The sword of the Lord is filled with blood. It is fattened with the fat of lambs, goats, and rams. For the Lord has a sacrifice in Bozrah and a great slaughter in Edom. 
34:7: The mighty ones shall fall with them, and the rams and the bulls. Their land shall be soaked with blood and saturated with fatness. 
34:8: For it is the day of the Lord’s judgment and the year of recompense for the cause of Zion. 
34:9: Its valleys shall be turned into pitch and its land into brimstone. Its land shall become burning pitch. 
34:10: It shall never be quenched day or night, and its smoke shall rise up. It shall lie waste for all time and generations. 
34:11: But birds and hedgehogs shall live in it, and also ibises and ravens. He shall stretch out over it the measuring line of a desert, and donkey-centaurs will dwell in it. 
34:12: Its rulers shall be no more, for its kings, rulers, and great ones shall be destroyed. 
34:13: Thorn-trees shall come up in its cities and fortresses; it shall be a habitation of sirens, a courtyard for ostriches. 
34:14: Demons shall also meet with donkey-centaurs, and one will cry out to another. Donkey-centaurs shall also rest there, for they found themselves a place of rest. 
34:15: There the hedgehog made its nest, and the earth preserved its children in safety. There the deer also gathered and saw one another’s faces. 
34:16: They passed by in numbers, and not one of them perished. Not one of them sought the other, for the Lord commanded them, and His Spirit gathered them. 
34:17: He shall cast lots for them, and His hand divided it among them to graze upon. They shall inherit it for all time, and shall rest on it from generation to generation.

