23:1: Wail, you ships of Carthage, for Tyre has perished; and they no longer come from the land of the Citaeans, for Tyre is led captive! 
23:2: To whom are the dwellers on the island likened—these merchants of Phoenicia, who cross over the sea 
23:3: in great waters, the offspring of merchants? These merchants of the nations are like as when the harvest is gathered. 
23:4: Be ashamed, O Sidon; for the sea has spoken, the strength of the sea has said, “I do not labor in birth, nor bear children; neither do I rear young men, nor raise virgins.” 
23:5: Moreover when the report reaches Egypt, sorrow will take hold of them concerning Tyre. 
23:6: Cross over to Carthage; wail, you inhabitants on this island! 
23:7: Was this not your arrogance from the beginning, before it was handed over? 
23:8: Who purposed these things against Tyre? Is it inferior, or does it have no strength? Are not its merchants the glorious rulers of the earth? 
23:9: The Lord of hosts purposed these things, to bring down all the arrogance of the glorious ones and to dishonor every glorious thing on the earth. 
23:10: Cultivate your land, for ships are no longer coming from Carthage. 
23:11: Your hand is no longer able at sea, the hand that provoked kings. The Lord of hosts has given a command concerning Canaan, to destroy its strength. 
23:12: They will say, “No longer continue to insult and wrong the daughter of Sidon, and if you cross over to the Citians, neither will you be at rest there. 
23:13: And if you depart for the land of the Chaldeans, this also was desolated by the Assyrians. Neither will you be at rest there, for its wall has fallen.” 
23:14: Wail, you ships of Carthage, for your stronghold is destroyed! 
23:15: Then it shall come to pass in that day that Tyre will be abandoned for seventy years, as the time of a king, as the time of a man; and it shall be, after the seventy years, Tyre will be as the song of a prostitute. 
23:16: Take a harp, wander about the city, you forgotten prostitute. Play well on the harp, sing many songs, that you may be remembered. 
23:17: And it shall be, at the end of seventy years, that the Lord will visit Tyre. She will be restored again as of old, and will be a marketplace for all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth. 
23:18: Her trade and her wages will be holy to the Lord. Her trade will not be gathered for them, but for those who dwell before the Lord, to eat, drink, and be filled, as a shared meal and a memorial before the Lord.

