22:1: The word concerning the valley of Zion: What has happened to you, now that you have all gone up to worthless houses? 
22:2: The city is full of loud crying. Your slain men are not slain with the sword, nor are your dead those who died in war. 
22:3: All your rulers have fled, and your captives are tightly bound, and the mighty among you have fled. 
22:4: Therefore I said, “Let me alone; I will weep bitterly; do not labor to comfort me at the destruction of the daughter of my race.” 
22:5: For it is a day of trouble, destruction, trampling, and error from the Lord of hosts in the Valley of Zion. They wander on the mountains, from the least to the greatest of them. 
22:6: And the Elamites took their quivers, and there were men mounted on horses, gathered for battle. 
22:7: It shall come to pass, your chosen valleys shall be full of chariots, and the horsemen shall block up your gates. 
22:8: They shall uncover the gates of Judah, and look in that day on the chosen houses of the city. 
22:9: They shall uncover the secret places of the houses of the citadel of David, and see they are many. They shall see they had turned back the waters of the old pool into the city, 
22:10: and had pulled down the houses of Jerusalem to fortify the wall for the city. 
22:11: You also made a reservoir for yourself between the two walls of the inner old pool. But you did not look to Him who made it from the beginning, nor did you perceive Him who created it. 
22:12: In that day the Lord of hosts called for weeping and mourning, for baldness and for girding with sackcloth. 
22:13: But instead, they celebrated in joy and gladness, slaying oxen and killing sheep, so as to eat and drink wine, saying, “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.” 
22:14: These things are revealed in the ears of the Lord of hosts, for this sin shall not be forgiven you until you die. 
22:15: Thus the Lord of hosts says, “Go into the chamber, to Shebna the steward, and say to him, 
22:16: ‘What have you here, and what is this to you, that you have hewn a memorial here for yourself, and made yourself a memorial on high, and engraved a testimony for yourself in a rock? 
22:17: Indeed the Lord of hosts will cast out and destroy such a man, and take away your robe 
22:18: and glorious crown, and cast you into a large and unmeasured country. There you shall die, and there your beautiful chariot shall be brought to dishonor and your master’s house trampled. 
22:19: You will be taken from your stewardship and position. 
22:20: Then it shall be in that day, I will call My servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah. 
22:21: I will clothe him with your robe and give your crown to him, and I will commit your power and your stewardship into his hands. He shall be like a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and Judah. 
22:22: I will give him the glory of David, and he shall rule, and no one will oppose him. 
22:23: I will establish him as a ruler in a trustworthy place, and he will become a glorious throne to his father’s house. 
22:24: Everyone glorious in his father’s house will trust in him, from small to great, and they will depend on him. 
22:25: In that day,’ says the Lord of hosts, ‘the man established in a trustworthy place will be removed and fall, and the glory that was on him will be taken away; for the Lord has spoken.’ ”

