54:1: “Be glad, O barren woman who does not bear; break forth and cry out, you who are not in travail, for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married woman,” says the Lord. 
54:2: “Enlarge the place of your tent and courtyard; set it up; do not avoid it; lengthen your ropes and strengthen your pegs. 
54:3: Spread out further to the right and the left, and your seed shall inherit the Gentiles. You shall cause the desolate cities to be inhabited. 
54:4: Fear not that you were shamed, neither be confounded and disgraced; for you will forget your former shame and will not remember the disgrace of your widowhood. 
54:5: For it is the Lord who is your Maker; the Lord of hosts is His name. He is your Deliverer, and He shall be called the God of Israel by all the earth. 
54:6: The Lord has not called you like a woman forsaken and fainthearted, nor like a wife hated from her youth,” says your God. 
54:7: “I forsook you for a short while, but with great compassion I will have mercy on you. 
54:8: In a little anger I turned away My face from you, but in everlasting compassion I will have mercy on you,” says the Lord who delivered you. 
54:9: “This little anger is to Me as it was at the time of Noah’s Flood, when I swore to him regarding the earth, that I would no longer be angry with it, neither would I again threaten to remove its mountains nor move its hills. 
54:10: So neither shall My compassion fail you, nor shall your covenant of peace be removed; for the Lord who is merciful to you has spoken. 
54:11: “Servile and unstable, you were not comforted. Behold, I am preparing you carbuncle for your stone and sapphire for your foundations, 
54:12: and I will make your battlements jasper and your gates crystal stones, and the enclosing wall of your temple choice stones. 
54:13: I will cause all your children to be taught by God, and your children to be in great peace. 
54:14: You shall be built in righteousness. Keep away from wrongdoing, and you will not be afraid, and trembling shall not come near you. 
54:15: Behold, resident aliens shall come to you because of Me, and they shall flee to you. 
54:16: Behold, I created you, not as a metalworker who blows coals in the fire and brings out a vessel fit for work; and I created you, not for ruin so as to destroy you. 
54:17: I will not prosper any instrument of destruction used against you, and every voice raised against you in judgment, you shall overcome them all; and your adversaries shall be judged guilty. This is the inheritance for those who serve the Lord, and you shall be my righteous ones,” says the Lord.

