63:1: Who is this who comes from Edom with red garments from Bozrah, so beautiful in His apparel, with force of strength? “I speak of righteousness and saving judgment.” 
63:2: Why are Your garments red and Your apparel as one who treads in a winepress? 
63:3: “I am full of the treading of grapes, and there is no man with Me among the nations. I trampled them in My anger, and crushed them like earth, and brought down their blood to the ground. 
63:4: For the day of recompense has come upon them, and the year of redemption has arrived. 
63:5: I looked, but there was no helper; and I observed, but there was no one to help; therefore, My arm delivered them, and My anger was suddenly present. 
63:6: So I trampled them in My wrath and brought their blood down to the ground.” 
63:7: I remembered the Lord’s mercy, the praises of the Lord in all things in which the Lord recompenses us. The Lord is a good judge to the house of Israel, and He deals with us according to His mercy, and according to the multitude of His righteousness. 
63:8: He said, “Surely My people, My children, have not rejected Me?” So He became their salvation. 
63:9: Not an elder or an angel, but the Lord Himself saved them from all their tribulation, because He loved them and spared them. He redeemed and took them up, and lifted them up all the days of old. 
63:10: Yet they disobeyed Him and grieved His Holy Spirit. So He turned against them with hostility and waged war on them. 
63:11: Then He remembered the days of old, He who brought up the shepherd of His sheep from the land. Where is He who put His Holy Spirit in them? 
63:12: Where is He who led Moses with His right hand, the arm of His glory? He overpowered the water by His presence to make for Himself an everlasting name. 
63:13: He brought them through the deep, like a horse through the desert, yet they did not grow weary. 
63:14: Like cattle through the plain, the Spirit came down from the Lord and guided them. Thus You led Your people, to make Yourself a glorious name. 
63:15: Return from heaven, and look from Your holy and glorious dwelling-place. Where are Your zeal and Your strength; where is the multitude of Your mercy and Your compassion, so as to be patient with us? 
63:16: You are our Father, although Abraham did not know us, and Israel did not acknowledge us; but You, O Lord, are our Father. You delivered us, and from the beginning Your name was upon us. 
63:17: Why have you led us astray, O Lord, from Your path, and hardened our hearts so as not to fear You? Return for the sake of Your servants, for the sake of the tribes of Your inheritance, 
63:18: that we may inherit a small portion of Your holy mountain. 
63:19: For our adversaries trampled down Your sanctuary, and we have become as we were from the beginning, when You did not rule us, neither did we call upon Your name. 
63:20: If You open heaven, trembling shall take hold of the mountains before You, and they shall melt as wax melts before the fire.

