52:1: Awake, awake, O Zion; put on your strength, O Zion, and put on your glory, O Jerusalem, the holy city. The uncircumcised and the unclean shall no longer continue to pass through you. 
52:2: Shake off the dust and rise up. Sit down, O Jerusalem; put off the band from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. 
52:3: For thus says the Lord: “You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money.” 
52:4: Thus says the Lord: “My people went down to Egypt in former times to sojourn there, and they were taken to the Assyrians by force.” 
52:5: So now, why are you here? The Lord says this: “Because My people were taken for nothing, marvel and lament.” The Lord says this: “Because of you, My name is blasphemed continually among the Gentiles. 
52:6: Therefore My people shall know My name in that day, for I am He who speaks. 
52:7: I am present like springtime in the mountains, like the feet of one who announces a good report of peace, like one who preaches good things, for I will cause Your salvation to be heard, saying, ‘O Zion, your God reigns.’ ” 
52:8: For the voice of those who guard you is raised upward, and with their voice they shall be glad together; for their eyes shall be on watch together when the Lord has mercy on Zion. 
52:9: Break forth in gladness together, O desert places of Jerusalem, for the Lord had mercy on her, and has delivered Jerusalem. 
52:10: The Lord will reveal His holy arm before all the Gentiles, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of God. 
52:11: Depart, depart, go out from there, and do not touch an unclean thing. Separate yourselves, you who carry the vessels of the Lord, 
52:12: because you shall not go forth with tumult, nor will you go by flight. For the Lord will go before you, and the Lord God of Israel shall gather you. 
52:13: Behold, My Servant shall have wisdom, and He shall be exalted and glorified exceedingly. 
52:14: Just as many shall be astonished at You, so Your form and glory shall be dishonored by men. 
52:15: Thus many nations shall marvel at Him, and kings shall shut their mouth, because they to whom no report was brought concerning Him shall see; and they who did not hear shall understand.

