33:1: Woe to those who distress you, though no one is causing you distress, and he who deals treacherously with you, though no one is dealing treacherously with you! Those who deal treacherously will be conquered and handed over, and like a moth in a garment they will be defeated. 
33:2: O Lord, have mercy on us; for we trust in You. The seed of the disobedient was made for destruction, but our salvation is in a time of affliction. 
33:3: The peoples were dismayed through fear of You, because of Your fearsome voice, and the nations were scattered. 
33:4: So now the spoils of your small and great shall be gathered, as if someone might gather grasshoppers. Thus shall they make fun of you. 
33:5: The God who dwells in the heights is holy. Zion is filled with judgment and righteousness. 
33:6: They will be handed over to the law. Our salvation is in treasures wherein is wisdom, knowledge, and godliness toward the Lord—these are the treasures of righteousness. 
33:7: Behold therefore, they will fear you greatly, and those you feared will fear you. For messengers shall be sent entreating for peace, weeping bitterly as they ask for peace. 
33:8: For their ways will lie desolate. The fear of the nations has ceased, and the covenant with them is taken away, and you will not reckon them as a people. 
33:9: The earth mourns, and Lebanon is shamed. Sharon has become marshlands, and Galilee and Carmel are laid bare. 
33:10: “Now I will arise,” says the Lord; “now I will be glorified; now I will be exalted. 
33:11: Now you shall see, now you shall perceive; the strength of your spirit is vain; fire shall devour you. 
33:12: The nations shall be burned up, like thorns thrown in the field and burned up. 
33:13: Those afar off will hear what I have done; and those near will know My strength.” 
33:14: The lawless in Zion departed; trembling will seize the ungodly. Who will tell you a fire is burning? Who will tell you about the eternal place? 
33:15: He who walks in righteousness and speaks uprightly, he who hates lawlessness and wrongdoing, who gestures with his hands, refusing bribes, he who stops his ears from hearing the judgment of blood, and he who shuts his eyes from seeing wrongdoing. 
33:16: He will dwell in a high cave of a mighty rock. Bread will be given him, and his water will be plentiful. 
33:17: All of you will see a King with His glory, and your eyes will see a land from afar. 
33:18: Your soul will think about fear. Where are the scribes? Where are the advisors? Where is he who numbers those growing up, 
33:19: both a small and great people, with whom they did not consult, nor did he know a deepvoiced people, that a despised people should not hear, and there is no understanding to him who hears? 
33:20: Behold, there is Zion, the city of our salvation. Your eyes will see Jerusalem, a wealthy city, a tabernacle which will not be shaken. Neither shall one of the tent-pegs of its tabernacle be moved forever, nor its cords broken; 
33:21: for the name of the Lord is great to you. There will be a place for you—rivers and brooks, broad and spacious. You will not travel this way, nor will a boat with oars. 
33:22: For my God is great. The Lord our judge will not pass me by. The Lord is our ruler, the Lord is our king. He will save us. 
33:23: Your ropes broke apart, for the boat was not strong. Your mast could not hold, and the sails slackened. It will not raise a flag until it is taken for booty. Therefore many lame men will make it a spoil. 
33:24: And the people who dwell among them will not say, “I am weary,” for their sin shall be forgiven.

