17:1: “Behold, Damascus will be taken away from among cities and will fall, 
17:2: abandoned forever. It shall be a fold and resting-place for sheep. No one will pursue them. 
17:3: There shall no longer be a strong place for Ephraim to flee to, and there shall no longer be a kingdom in Damascus and a remnant of Syrians; for you are no better than the sons of Israel and their glory,” says the Lord of hosts. 
17:4: “In that day, there shall be an eclipse of the glory of Jacob, and the riches of his glory shall be shaken. 
17:5: It will be as when one gathers a standing harvest and reaps ears of corn with his arm. It shall be as when one gathers heads of grain in a rich valley. 
17:6: It shall be as when straw is left in it, or as when the berries of an olive tree, two or three on the uppermost bough, or as when four or five are left on their branches,” says the Lord, the God of Israel. 
17:7: In that day, a man will trust in Him who made him, and his eyes will look at the Holy One of Israel. 
17:8: They will not trust in their altars, nor in the works of their hands, which their fingers made. They will not look to their trees, nor to their abominations. 
17:9: In that day, your cities will be abandoned, as the Amorites and the Evites forsook theirs, because of the children of Israel. They will be desolate, 
17:10: because you forsook God your Savior, and have not been mindful of the Lord your helper. Therefore you will be a faithless plant and a faithless seed. 
17:11: In the day you plant, you will be deceived; but if you sow in the morning, it will blossom into a harvest, in which you will receive an inheritance in that day; and as a man’s father, you will obtain an inheritance for your sons. 
17:12: Woe to the multitude of many nations; as the swelling sea, so shall you be troubled; and the surging of many nations will sound like water, 
17:13: many nations like much water, as when much water rushes violently; and he will curse him and pursue him afar, as when the dust of chaff scatters before the wind, and a sudden blast of wind whirls the dust of a wheel! 
17:14: Toward evening there will be mourning, and before morning, he will be no more. This is the portion of those who plundered you, and the inheritance of those who robbed you of your inheritance.

