44:1: Yet hear now, O Jacob My servant, and Israel, whom I chose. 
44:2: Thus says the Lord God who made you, and formed you from the womb: “You will yet be helped; fear not, Jacob My servant, and Israel, My beloved, whom I chose. 
44:3: For I will give water to the thirsty who walk in a waterless place. I will put My Spirit upon your seed and My blessings upon your children. 
44:4: They will spring up like grass in the midst of the water and like willows by the flowing water. 
44:5: One will say, ‘I am God’s,’ and will call himself by the name of Jacob. Another will write, ‘I am God’s,’ and call himself by the name of Israel.” 
44:6: Thus says God, the King of Israel who delivers him, the God of hosts: “I am the first and the last; besides Me there is no God. 
44:7: Who is just as I am? Then let him stand, let him call and prepare for Me that from which I made man forever, and let them declare to you the things that are coming before they come. 
44:8: Do not hide yourselves. Have you not paid attention from the beginning, and have I not declared it to you? You are My witnesses, if there is a God besides Me? Indeed there was none. 
44:9: All who form and carve gods are useless, and they desire things which shall not profit them; but they will be ashamed. 
44:10: They all create a god and carve unprofitable things. 
44:11: All by whom they were made are withered, and let all the deaf among men be gathered together. Let them stand together, and be ashamed and dishonored together. 
44:12: For the craftsman sharpens his iron tool, and fashions the idol with his axe, and pierces it with the awl. He works it with the strength of his arm, and will hunger and grow weak, and will not drink water. 
44:13: The craftsman selects his wood and stretches out his rule, and fits it with glue. He makes it like the form of a man and according to the bloom of youth, to set it up in the house. 
44:14: The wood he cut from the forest which the Lord planted, and the rain made it grow, 
44:15: so as to be for men to burn and to take some of it to warm himself. They kindle it, and bake bread for themselves; but he works into gods what is left and worships them. 
44:16: They burn half of it in the fire, and with the other half they bake bread for themselves. They roast meat on it, eat and are satisfied. He even warms himself and says, ‘I am comfortable, because I am warm, and have seen the fire.’ 
44:17: And the rest of it he makes into a carved god, and worships it and prays to it, and says, ‘Deliver me, for you are my god.’ 
44:18: They do not know how to discern because they shut their eyes, so as not to see with their eyes or understand with their heart. 
44:19: No one considered in his heart, neither pondered in his soul, nor knew in his discernment, that he burned half of it in the fire, baked bread on its coals, roasted meat and ate, and then made the rest of it an abomination; and they worship it. 
44:20: Know this: their heart is ashes; they go astray, and no one can deliver his soul. See, you will not say, ‘There is a lie in my right hand.’ 
44:21: “Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel, for you are My servant; I formed you to be My servant; therefore, you, O Israel, do not forget Me. 
44:22: For behold, I blotted out your lawlessness like a cloud and your sins like darkness. Return to Me, and I will redeem you. 
44:23: Be glad, O heavens, for the Lord had mercy on Israel. Sound the trumpet, you foundations of the earth; shout with gladness, you mountains and hills and every tree on them. For God redeemed Jacob, and Israel will be glorified.” 
44:24: Thus says the Lord, who redeems you and forms you from the womb: “I am the Lord, who accomplishes all things, who alone stretched out the heavens and established the earth. 
44:25: Who else will scatter abroad the sign of ventriloquists and the divinations from their heart, turning their shrewd men backward and making their counsel foolishness? 
44:26: Who else establishes the word of His servant, proving the counsel of His messengers to be true? Who else says to Jerusalem, ‘You shall be inhabited,’ and to the cities of Judah, ‘You shall be built, and the desert places shall spring forth’? 
44:27: Who else says to the deep, ‘You shall be dried up, and I will dry up your rivers’? 
44:28: Who else tells Cyrus to be wise, and do all My will, and says to Jerusalem, ‘You will be built, and I shall lay the foundation of My holy house’?”

