27:1: In that day, God will bring His holy, great, and strong sword upon the fleeing dragon serpent, the perverse dragon serpent that flees; and He shall destroy the dragon. 
27:2: In that day, there shall be a beautiful vineyard, and a desire to begin a hymn against a city: 
27:3: “I am a strong city, a besieged city; I water it in vain; for it shall be taken at night, and its wall shall fall by day. 
27:4: There is no woman who has not taken hold of it. Who will appoint me to guard straw in a field? I rejected it because of this enemy. For that very reason therefore, the Lord God did all the things He ordered. I am burned down.” 
27:5: Those who dwell in it will cry out, “Let us make peace with Him, let us make peace.” 
27:6: Those who come are the children of Jacob. Israel shall bud and put forth flowers, and the inhabited earth shall be filled with its fruit. 
27:7: As he struck, shall he not be thus struck? As he slew, shall he not be thus slain? 
27:8: Fighting and denouncing he shall send them away. Did you not think with a harsh spirit about killing them in a spirit of anger? 
27:9: Therefore the lawlessness of Jacob will be removed; and this is his blessing when I take away his sin, when they make all the stones of the altars beaten like fine dust. Their trees do not remain, and their idols shall be cut down like a distant forest. 
27:10: The flock that dwelt there shall be left like an abandoned flock, and for a long time the field will be for pasture; and there flocks shall lie down to rest. 
27:11: And after a time, there will be nothing green in it because of the withering. Come here, you women who come from that sight. For it is a people of no understanding; therefore He who made them will have no compassion on them, neither He who formed them; and He will show them no mercy. 
27:12: And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord will close it from the channel of the river to the Brook of Egypt. And you will gather the sons of Israel one by one. 
27:13: So it shall be in that day that they shall blow the great trumpet, and the lost ones in the country of the Assyrians and in Egypt will come, and they shall worship the Lord on the holy mountain in Jerusalem.

