5:1: “Now I will sing to My Beloved a song of My Beloved regarding My vineyard: There was a vineyard for My Beloved, a place in power and richness. 
5:2: He placed a wall around it and fortified it. He planted it with the choicest vine. He built a tower in its midst and also made a winepress in it. So I waited for it to bring forth grapes, but it produced thorn-plants. 
5:3: And now, man of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, judge between Me and My vineyard. 
5:4: What shall I yet do for My vineyard that I have not done for it? For I waited for it to bring forth grapes, but it produced thorn-plants. 
5:5: But now I will tell you what I shall do to My vineyard: I shall remove its wall and it shall be for booty. I shall break down its wall and it shall be trampled underfoot. 
5:6: I will forsake My vineyard. It shall not be pruned or cultivated, but thorns shall sprout forth as in a barren land. I will also command the clouds not to rain on it.” 
5:7: For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the man of Judah is His beloved plant. I waited for it to bring forth judgment, but it brought forth lawlessness, and not righteousness, but a cry. 
5:8: Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field, to take something from their neighbor. Surely you will not dwell alone in the land. 
5:9: For these things reached the ears of the Lord of hosts, for though many large and beautiful houses should be built, they shall be desolate, for there shall be no one to live in them. 
5:10: For where ten yoke of oxen shall work, the land shall yield one jar, and whoever sows six homers shall receive three measures. 
5:11: Woe to those who rise early in the morning to follow intoxicating drink; to those who continue until night, for wine shall inflame them. 
5:12: For they drink wine with the harp, the strings, the tambourine and flute, but they do not look at the deeds of the Lord, nor consider the works of His hands! 
5:13: Therefore my people became captives, because they did not know the Lord; and a multitude died through hunger and thirst for water. 
5:14: Hades enlarged itself and opened its mouth continually. The glorious, the great, the wealthy, and the troublesome shall descend into it. 
5:15: A man shall be humiliated, and a man shall be dishonored; and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled. 
5:16: But the Lord of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and the Holy God shall be glorified in righteousness. 
5:17: Those plundered shall be fed as bulls, and lambs shall eat on the waste places of those taken away. 
5:18: Woe to those who draw sins to themselves as with a long rope and lawlessness as with the strap of a cow’s yoke, 
5:19: who say, “Let Him speedily hasten what He will do that we may see it, and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel come, that we may know it!” 
5:20: Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter! 
5:21: Woe to those who are intelligent in their own eyes and expert in their own sight! 
5:22: Woe to your strong ones who drink wine and the mighty ones who mix intoxicating drink, 
5:23: who justify the ungodly for a bribe and take away justice from the righteous man! 
5:24: Therefore in the manner that stubble shall be burned by coals of fire and consumed by a violent flame, their root shall be like chaff and their flower shall go up like dust, for they did not will to do the law of the Lord of hosts, but despised the word of the Holy One of Israel. 
5:25: Thus the wrath of the Lord of hosts is furious against His people. He laid His hand on them and struck them. The mountains were provoked, and their carcasses were as refuse in the midst of the road. For all this His anger was not turned away, but His hand is still uplifted. 
5:26: Consequently He shall take up a banner to the nations from afar and will whistle to them from the ends of the earth. Behold, they are coming swiftly and with speed. 
5:27: They shall not hunger or be weary. Neither shall they slumber nor sleep. Nor shall they loose the belts from their loins. Neither shall their sandal-straps be broken. 
5:28: Their arrows are sharp, and their bows are bent. The hooves of their horses seem like flint and their chariot-wheels like a sudden blast of wind. 
5:29: They rush like lions, and stand like a young lion that seizes his prey and roars like a wild animal, then carries it away; and there shall be no one to deliver them. 
5:30: In that day, they will bellow against them like the sound of the roaring sea. They will look at the land and behold harsh darkness in their despair.

