2:1: The word that came from the Lord to Isaiah the son of Amoz concerning Judah and Jerusalem. 
2:2: Now it shall come to pass in the last days, the mountain of the Lord and the house of God shall be visible on the tops of the mountains and exalted above the hills. All the Gentiles shall come to it. 
2:3: Many Gentiles shall travel and say, “Come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will proclaim His way to us, and we shall walk in it.” For the law of the Lord shall go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 
2:4: He shall judge between the Gentiles and rebuke many people. They shall beat their swords into plows and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. 
2:5: O now, house of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of the Lord. 
2:6: For He forsook His people, the house of Israel, for as from the beginning, their land is filled with divinations—like the land of foreigners—and many children of foreigners were born to them. 
2:7: Their land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasures. Their land is also filled with horses; there is no end to their chariots. 
2:8: Their land is also filled with the abominations of their works, and they worship the works of their hands, which their fingers made. 
2:9: A man bows down and each man humbles himself, but I will not forgive them. 
2:10: Enter now into the rocks and hide in the earth from the face of the Lord, for fear and the glory of His might when He rises to smite the earth. 
2:11: For the eyes of the Lord are lofty, and man is humble. The haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. 
2:12: For the day of the Lord of hosts shall come upon all who are insolent, arrogant, high and lifted up, and they shall be humbled; 
2:13: and upon every cedar tree of Lebanon, high and lifted up, and upon every oak of Bashan, 
2:14: and upon every mountain and lofty hill, 
2:15: and upon every high tower and fortified wall, 
2:16: and upon every ship of the sea, and upon every sight of beautiful ships. 
2:17: Every man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of man shall fall. The Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. 
2:18: But they shall hide all the things made by hands. 
2:19: They shall carry them into the caves and cracks of the rocks, and into the holes of the earth, from fear of the Lord’s presence and the glory of His might when He arises to strike the earth. 
2:20: For in that day, man will cast away his abominations of silver and gold, which they made to worship worthless things and bats, 
2:21: so as to enter into the holes of solid rocks and clefts of the rugged rocks, from fear of the Lord and the glory of His might when He arises to strike the earth.

