30:1: “Woe to the apostate children,” says the Lord! “You made counsel, but not through Me, and covenants, but not of My Spirit, so as to add sins to sins. 
30:2: You proceeded to go down to Egypt, but did not ask Me, so as to be helped by Pharaoh and protected by the Egyptians. 
30:3: For the protection of Pharaoh shall be your shame, and there shall be disgrace for those who trust in Egypt. 
30:4: For there are rulers at Tanis, evil messengers. In vain shall they labor 
30:5: in seeking a people who will not profit, help or benefit them, but they shall be for them a shame and a disgrace.” 
30:6: The vision of the quadrupeds in the desert: In affliction and distress they carry their wealth on the backs of donkeys and camels—amid lions and lion’s cubs, and vipers and the offspring of flying vipers—to a nation that will not profit or benefit them, but will be for them a shame and a disgrace. 
30:7: For the Egyptians shall help you utterly in vain. Tell them, “This consolation of yours is in vain.” 
30:8: Now therefore, sit and write these things on a tablet in a book, for these things shall be for the time to come, even forever. 
30:9: For this is a disobedient people, false children, children who are unwilling to hear the law of God. 
30:10: They say to the prophets, “Do not report to us”; and to those who see visions, “Do not speak to us, but speak and declare to us another deception. 
30:11: Turn us aside from this way; remove this path from us, and take away from us the Holy One of Israel.” 
30:12: Therefore thus says the Lord, the Holy One of Israel: “Because you disobeyed these words, and hoped in falsehood and grumbled and were confident in this respect; 
30:13: therefore, this sin shall be to you like a wall ready to fall when a strong city is taken, whose fall is immediately present. 
30:14: Its fall shall be like the breaking of a clay vessel, like that of a small jar, so as not to find among them even a fragment with which to take away fire, or draw a little water.” 
30:15: For thus says the Lord, the Holy One of Israel: “When you return and groan, then you will be saved and know where you were. When you trusted in vain things, vain was your strength, and you did not will to listen.” 
30:16: But you said, “We will flee on horses”—therefore you shall flee. You also said, “We will ride on swift horses”—therefore those who pursue you shall be swift. 
30:17: One thousand shall flee at the voice of one; at the voice of five, many shall flee, until you are left as a pole upon a mountain, and as one holding a banner on a hill. 
30:18: And again God will wait, that He may have compassion on you; and therefore He will be exalted, that He may have mercy on you, because the Lord our God is a judge, and where will you leave behind your glory? Blessed are all those who abide in Him. 
30:19: For a holy people shall dwell in Zion; and Jerusalem cried with wailing, “Have mercy on me.” He will have mercy on you at the sound of your cry. When He sees this, He will listen to you. 
30:20: The Lord will give you the bread of affliction and scant water; and those leading you astray will no longer approach you, but your eyes shall see those leading you astray. 
30:21: Your ears shall hear words behind you leading you astray, saying, “This is the way; let us walk in it,” either to the right hand or to the left. 
30:22: You will also remove your idols plaited with silver and covered with gold. You will grind them to powder and scatter them like the water of an indisposed woman, and thrust them away like dung. 
30:23: Then there will be rain for the seed of your land, and the bread of produce of your land’s increase will be plenteous and rich. In that day your cattle will feed in rich and large pastures. 
30:24: Your bulls and the oxen that work the ground will eat straw prepared with winnowed barley. 
30:25: On every high mountain and on every high hill there will be streams in that day, when many perish and the towers fall. 
30:26: In that day, the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be sevenfold, when the Lord heals the wound of His people and the pain of your plague. 
30:27: Behold, the name of the Lord comes after a long time, a burning anger. The teaching of His lips is with glory, a revelation full of wrath, and the wrath of His anger shall devour like fire. 
30:28: His breath, like an overflowing stream in a valley, shall reach up to the neck and be divided, to trouble the nations for their vain error; and error shall pursue and overtake them. 
30:29: Must you always be glad, and go into My holy places continually, as those who keep a feast, and must you always go with a flute, as those who are glad when they go into the mountain of the Lord, to the God of Israel? 
30:30: God will cause His glorious voice to be heard, and He will show the anger of His arm with anger and wrath, and the flame of a devouring fire. He shall strike violently with thunderbolts, and His wrath shall be as water and violent hail. 
30:31: For through the voice of the Lord, the Assyrians will be defeated, as He strikes them with the rod. 
30:32: And it shall happen to him on every side, that those from whom his hope of assistance was, and in whom he trusted, shall themselves, in turn, make war on him with flutes and harps. 
30:33: For you will be required before many days: Was it prepared for you also to reign? No, God prepared for you a deep valley, wood laid down, fire and much wood. The anger of the Lord shall be as a valley burning with brimstone.

