43:1: And now, thus says the Lord God who made you, O Jacob, and who formed you, O Israel: “Fear not, for I redeemed you. I called you by your name, for you are Mine. 
43:2: If you pass through water, I am with you; and the rivers shall not overflow you. If you pass through fire, you shall not be burned up, nor shall the flame consume you. 
43:3: For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, who saves you. I made Egypt and Ethiopia your ransom and gave Seba on your behalf. 
43:4: Since you were precious in My sight, you became glorious, and I love you. I will give many men for you and rulers to lead you. 
43:5: Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your seed from the east, and gather you from the west. 
43:6: I will say to the north, ‘Bring them,’ and to the south, ‘Do not keep them back. Bring My sons from afar and My daughters from the ends of the earth—everyone called by My name.’ 
43:7: For in my glory I prepared him, and formed and made him. 
43:8: I brought forth the blind people, and their eyes are alike blind, and their ears deaf.” 
43:9: All the nations are gathered together, and the rulers shall be assembled from among them. Who will declare these things or tell us things from the beginning? Let them bring forth their witnesses, and be proven right; and let them speak the truth. 
43:10: “You are My witnesses, and I am a witness,” says the Lord God, “and My Servant whom I chose, that you may know and believe, and understand that I am He. Before Me there was no other God, nor shall there be after Me. 
43:11: I am God, and besides Me there is no one who saves. 
43:12: I proclaimed, and I saved. I denounced foreign gods so there were none among you. You are My witnesses, and I am a witness,” says the Lord God. 
43:13: “Even from the beginning, there is no one who can deliver out of My hands; I will work, and who will reverse it?” 
43:14: Thus says the Lord God who redeems you, the Holy One of Israel: “For your sake I will send to Babylon and arouse all who flee, and the Chaldeans shall be bound in ships. 
43:15: I am the Lord God, your Holy One, who made known your King, O Israel.” 
43:16: Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea and a path in the mighty water, 
43:17: who brings forth chariot and horse, and a mighty host. But they fell asleep, and shall not arise. They are extinguished, like a quenched lamp-wick: 
43:18: “Do not remember the former things, nor reason about the things of old. 
43:19: Behold, I will do new things, which shall now spring forth, and you shall know them; and l will make a road in the desert and rivers in the waterless places. 
43:20: The wild animals of the field will bless Me, the sirens and the daughters of sparrows, because I gave water in the wilderness and rivers in the waterless place, to give drink to My race, My chosen, 
43:21: My people whom I preserved to declare My virtues. 
43:22: I have not called on you now, O Jacob, neither have I made you grow weary, O Israel. 
43:23: You have not brought Me sheep for your whole burnt offerings, neither have you glorified Me with your sacrifices, nor have I wearied you with frankincense. 
43:24: Neither have you purchased sweet incense for Me with money, nor have I desired the fat of your sacrifices; but I set before you your sins and wrongdoings. 
43:25: I, even I, am He who blots out your lawlessness, and I will not remember them. 
43:26: But remember, and let us judge; tell your lawless first, that you may be made righteous. 
43:27: Your fathers first, and their rulers after them, acted lawlessly against Me. 
43:28: Your rulers defiled My holy things; thus I gave Jacob to destruction and Israel for reproach.”

