21:1: As though a whirlwind should pass through the desert, coming from a desert, from a fearful land, 
21:2: so a fearful and harsh vision was declared to me. He who is treacherous deals treacherously; the lawless one deals lawlessly. The Elamites and the ambassador of the Persians come against me. Now I will groan and comfort myself. 
21:3: Therefore my loins are filled with feebleness, and agony seizes me as a woman giving birth. I did wrong, so I cannot hear; I am so troubled, I cannot see. 
21:4: My heart is led astray, and lawlessness permeates me. My soul is occupied with fear. 
21:5: Prepare the table, eat and drink. Arise, you princes, and prepare your shields. 
21:6: For thus the Lord said to me: “Go, set a watchman for yourself and declare whatever you see.” 
21:7: So I saw two mounted horsemen, a rider on a donkey, and a rider on a camel. Listen with much attention, 
21:8: and call Uriah to the lookout-place of the Lord. Then he said, “I stood continually during the day, and in the camp throughout the night. 
21:9: Behold, he is coming, a rider on a chariot.” Then he answered and said, “Babylon is fallen, and all her statues and those made by hand are crushed to the ground.” 
21:10: Listen, you who remain and are suffering pain, hear what things I heard from the Lord of hosts, which the God of Israel declared to us. 
21:11: The vision of Edom: He calls to me from Seir, “Guard the battlements. 
21:12: I guard in the morning and at night. If you will inquire, inquire, and dwell with me.” 
21:13: In the forest on the road of Dedan you will lodge. 
21:14: Bring water to meet him who is thirsty, you inhabitants of the land of Teman; meet those who are fleeing with bread, 
21:15: because of the multitude who are fleeing and the multitude who are wandering, and because of the multitude of swords and bent bows, and the multitude of those fallen in war. 
21:16: For thus the Lord said to me: “Within a year, according to the year of a hired servant, all the glory of the sons of Kedar shall fail. 
21:17: The remainder of the archers and the mighty men of the sons of Kedar shall be few, for the Lord God of Israel has spoken.”

