9:1: Do this first and do it quickly: O country of Zebulun, land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea, and the rest dwelling along the seacoast and parts of Judea, and the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, a people who walk in darkness, behold a great light; and you who dwell in the country of the shadow of death, upon you a light will shine. 
9:2: The multitude of the people, whom You brought down in Your joy, they shall also rejoice in Your presence, as those who rejoice in harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoils. 
9:3: For the yoke lying upon them and the rod upon their neck is taken away, for the Lord broke the rod of the exactors as in the day of Midian. 
9:4: For every robe and garment gathered by deceit, they shall repay with money, and they shall be willing to do this, even though they were burned with fire. 
9:5: For unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given; and the government will be upon His shoulder. His name will be called the Angel of Great Counsel, for I shall bring peace upon the rulers, peace and health by Him. 
9:6: Great shall be His government, and of His peace there is no end. His peace shall be upon the throne of David and over His kingdom, to order and establish it with righteousness and judgment, from that time forward and unto ages of ages. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall perform this. 
9:7: The Lord sent death against Jacob, and it came on Israel. 
9:8: All the people will know—Ephraim and the inhabitant of Samaria—who say in pride and arrogance of heart, 
9:9: “The bricks fell, but let us hew stones; and let us cut down sycamores and cedars, and we shall build ourselves a tower.” 
9:10: But God shall overthrow those who rise up against them on Mt. Zion, and scatter their enemies: 
9:11: the Syrians from the rising of the sun, the Greeks from the setting of the sun, and those who shall devour Israel with open mouth. For all this, His anger is not turned away, but His hand is still uplifted. 
9:12: But the people did not turn until they were struck, yet they did not seek the Lord. 
9:13: So the Lord took away head and tail from Israel, great and small, in one day. 
9:14: The elder and those who admire persons, this is the head. The prophet who teaches lawlessness, this is the tail. 
9:15: For those who bless this people lead them astray, and they lead them astray so as to destroy them. 
9:16: Therefore God will have no joy in their young men, nor mercy on their orphans and widows. For all of them are lawless and evil. Every mouth speaks injustices. For all this His anger is not turned away, but His hand is still uplifted. 
9:17: For lawlessness burns like fire, and like dry grass, it shall be consumed by fire and burn in the thickets of the forest. It shall devour all the hills round about. 
9:18: Because of the Lord’s wrath the entire land is burned up, and the people are as fuel for the fire. No man will have mercy on his brother. 
9:19: But one shall turn aside to the right hand, for he shall be hungry; and he shall eat on the left hand and not be satisfied. Every man shall eat the flesh of his own arm. 
9:20: Manasseh shall devour Ephraim and Ephraim Manasseh. Together they shall besiege Judah. For all this His anger is not turned away, but His hand is still uplifted.

