59:1: Is the Lord’s hand unable to save? Is His ear heavy so as not to hear? 
59:2: But your sins stand between you and your God, and He turned His face from you because of your sins, so as not to have mercy. 
59:3: For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with sins; and your lips speak lawlessness, and your tongue plots wrongdoing. 
59:4: No one speaks righteous things, nor is there true judgment. They trust in worthless things and speak vain things; for they conceive trouble and give birth to lawlessness. 
59:5: They hatch the eggs of asps, and weave a spider’s web. He who is about to eat of their eggs finds a sterile and broken egg, and in it a basilisk. 
59:6: Their web shall not become a garment, nor will they clothe themselves with their works; for their works are works of lawlessness. 
59:7: Their feet run swiftly to evil to shed blood. Their thoughts are the thoughts of undiscerning men, and destruction and misery are in their ways. 
59:8: They do not know the way of peace, and there is no judgment in their ways; for the paths they travel are corrupt, and they do not know peace. 
59:9: Therefore judgment departed from them, and righteousness does not lay hold of them. While they waited for light, darkness came upon them, and while they waited for the dawn, they walked in darkness. 
59:10: They groped around for a wall like blind men, and like men who have no eyes they groped around. They shall fall at midday as though it were midnight, and shall groan like dying men. 
59:11: They shall proceed together like a bear and a dove: We waited for judgment, but there is none, and salvation departed far away from us. 
59:12: For our lawlessness is great before You, and our sins oppose us; for our lawlessness is with us, and we know our unrighteous deeds. 
59:13: We acted in an ungodly manner, and we lied and departed backwards from our God. We spoke unjustly, and were disobedient; and we conceived and meditated on unrighteous words from our heart. 
59:14: We departed backwards from judgment, and righteousness stands far off. For the truth is consumed in their ways, and they could not pass by a straight path. 
59:15: Truth was taken away, and they turned away their mind so as not to understand. But the Lord saw this and was not pleased, because there was no judgment. 
59:16: He also saw there was no man, and He observed, but there was no one to help. He defended them with His arm and established them with His mercy. 
59:17: He put on righteousness as a breastplate and placed the helmet of salvation on His head. He clothed Himself with the garment and covering of vengeance, 
59:18: as a recompense of recompenses, even a rebuke to His adversaries. 
59:19: Those from the west shall fear the name of the Lord, and those from the east, His glorious name; for the wrath of the Lord shall come like a violent river; it shall come with anger. 
59:20: He who delivers shall come for Zion’s sake, and He shall turn back ungodliness from Jacob. 
59:21: “This shall be My covenant with them,” says the Lord. “My Spirit who is upon you, and My words I caused to be in your mouth shall not fail from the mouth of your seed; for the Lord has spoken it, from now and forever.

