3:1: For behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, takes away from Judah and from Jerusalem the strong man and the strong woman; the strength of bread and the strength of water; 
3:2: the mighty man and the man of war; the judge, the prophet, the diviner, and the elder; 
3:3: the captain of fifty, the wonderful counselor, the skillful artisan, and the prudent disciple. 
3:4: “I will give children to be their princes, and mockers shall rule over them. 
3:5: The people will collapse, every one on another and every one on his neighbor. The child will be arrogant toward the elder and vulgar toward the honorable.” 
3:6: When a man takes hold of his brother or his father’s servant, saying, “You have clothing; you be our ruler and let my food be under your roof.” 
3:7: In that day, he will protest, saying, “I will not be your ruler, for in my house there is neither food nor clothing. I will not be the ruler of this people.” 
3:8: For Jerusalem is ruined and Judah is fallen, because their tongues are lawless and they are disobedient to the Lord. Now their glory is humbled. 
3:9: The shame on their face witnesses against them. They declare and exhibit their sin as Sodom. Woe to their soul, for they planned evil upon themselves, 
3:10: saying, “Let us hand over the righteous man, for he is burdensome to us.” They shall eat the fruit of their doings. 
3:11: Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for the reward of his hands shall be given him. 
3:12: “O My people, your punishers gather you, and those who make demands of you rule over you. O My people, those who bless you lead you astray and trouble the path of your feet.” 
3:13: The Lord stands up to plead and stands to judge His people. 
3:14: The Lord will enter into judgment with the elders of His people and His princes: “For you set fire to My vineyard and the plunder of the poor is in your houses. 
3:15: What do you mean by crushing My people and grinding the faces of the poor?” 
3:16: Moreover the Lord says, “Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks and wanton eyes, because they walk and mince as they go, making a jingling with their feet, 
3:17: therefore the Lord will humble the chief daughters of Zion. The Lord will uncover their secret parts.” 
3:18: In that day, the Lord will take away the glory of their garments and adornments: the hair-clasps, the tassels, the crescents, 
3:19: the necklace, and the ornament on their faces; 
3:20: even the collection of glorious adornment, the anklets and the armlets, the bracelets for the right arm and the finger-rings and the earrings, 
3:21: the garments dyed and decorated with purple, 
3:22: the house-coats and transparent Lyconian garments, 
3:23: the fine linen—the hyacinthine and scarlet and flax interwoven with gold and hyacinth—and the flowing veils. 
3:24: And so it shall be, instead of a sweet smell there will be dust; instead of a sash, a rope; instead of a golden ornament of the head, baldness; and for your deeds, instead of purple, you will have sackcloth. 
3:25: Your most handsome son, whom you love, shall fall by the sword, and your mighty shall fall by the sword. 
3:26: And your chests of adornments shall lament and mourn, and you shall be left to sit on the ground.

