41:1: “Be renewed before Me, O coastlands, for the rulers will gain their strength. Let them come near and speak together, then let them declare judgment. 
41:2: Who raised up righteousness from the east, and called it to his feet, that it should go forth? He will establish it before the Gentiles and amaze kings. He shall bury their swords in the earth and cast away their bows as sticks. 
41:3: He will pursue them, and the way of His feet will pass through in peace. 
41:4: Who worked and performed these things? He called righteousness, He who calls it from generations of old. I, God, am the first, and into the future I Am. 
41:5: The Gentiles saw His righteousness and feared. The ends of the earth drew near and came together, 
41:6: each one judging for his neighbor, that he might help his brother. One will say, 
41:7: ‘The craftsman is strong, as is the metalworker who strikes with the hammer and forges at the same time.’ Sometimes one will say, ‘It is put together well, and they fastened it with nails. They arranged them, and they shall not be moved.’ 
41:8: “But you, O Israel, are My servant, and Jacob, whom I chose, the seed of Abraham, whom I loved. 
41:9: I took you from the ends of the earth, and called you from its height. I said to you, ‘You are My servant. I chose you, and have not forsaken you. 
41:10: Fear not, for I am with you. Do not go astray, for I am your God who strengthens you; and I will help and secure you with My righteous right hand.’ 
41:11: Behold, all your adversaries shall be put to shame and disgraced. For they shall be as though they did not exist, and all who oppose you shall perish. 
41:12: You shall seek but not find the men who rage against you, for those who war against you shall be as though they did not exist. 
41:13: For I am your God who holds your right hand, saying to you, ‘Fear not.’ 
41:14: O Jacob, O Israel, few in number, I will help you, and I will redeem you, O Israel,” says God. 
41:15: “Behold, I will make you like new saw-shaped threshing wheels of a wagon, and you shall thresh the mountains and beat the hills to powder, and make them like chaff. 
41:16: You shall crush them, and the wind shall carry them away; and the whirlwind will scatter them; but you shall be glad among the saints, O Israel. 
41:17: The poor and needy shall rejoice exceedingly, for when they shall seek water, but there is none, and their tongues are parched with thirst, I, the Lord God, will hear them; I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. 
41:18: But I will open rivers in the mountain and fountains in the midst of the plains. I will make the desert into marsh-meadows, and the dry land into aqueducts. 
41:19: I will plant the cedar, the box-tree, the myrtle, the cypress, and the white poplar in the waterless ground, 
41:20: so they may see, know, consider, and understand together that the Lord’S hand did all these things; and the Holy One of Israel created them. 
41:21: “Your judgment draws near,” says the Lord God. “Your counsels draw near,” says the King of Jacob. 
41:22: “Let them draw near, and tell you what will happen; or tell you about the former things, what they were; and we shall be able to understand and know them, and know what are the last things; and tell us about the future. 
41:23: Declare to us things coming at the end of time, and we will know you are gods. Do good and evil, and we shall marvel and see it together. 
41:24: Where do you come from? Where does your work come from? They chose you, an abomination out of the earth. 
41:25: I raised up one from the north and from the rising of the sun, and they shall be called by My name. Let the rulers come, and you will be trampled down, as potter’s clay and as a potter tramples down the clay. 
41:26: For who will declare the things from the beginning, that we may also know the former things and say they are true? There is no one who foretells or hears your words. 
41:27: I will give Zion the power to rule, and I shall comfort Jerusalem in the way. 
41:28: For I looked, and there was no one from the nations or from their idols to declare it to me. If I should ask them where they are from, they would not answer me. 
41:29: For they are the ones who made you, so you think, and in vain they are leading you astray.

