66:1: Thus says the Lord: “Heaven is My throne, and earth is the footstool of My feet. What kind of house will you build for Me? Or what kind is the place of My rest? 
66:2: For My hand made all these things, and all these things are Mine,” says the Lord; “and upon whom will I show respect, but to the humble and the peaceful and to him who trembles at My words. 
66:3: But the lawless man who sacrifices a calf is as he who kills a dog; and he who offers a grain offering, as he who offers the blood of a pig; and he who offers incense for a memorial, as he who is a blasphemer. These chose their ways and their abominations, which their soul willed. 
66:4: But I will choose their mockeries, and I will repay them; because I called, but they did not obey Me; I spoke, but they did not listen; but they did evil in My sight, and things I did not will, they chose.” 
66:5: Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at His word. Speak, our brethren, to those who hate us and detest us, that the Lord’s name may be glorified and seen in their gladness, so they may be ashamed. 
66:6: A voice of crying from the city, a voice from the temple, the voice of the Lord is fully repaying His enemies. 
66:7: “Before she travails in labor to give birth, before the pain of birth pangs comes on, she escapes it and bears a male. 
66:8: Who has heard such a thing, and who has seen anything like this? Has the earth travailed in one day, or has a nation given birth at once? For Zion travailed and gave birth to her children. 
66:9: But I raised this expectation, yet you did not remember Me,” says the Lord. “Behold, do I not cause one woman to beget, but another to be sterile?” says God. 
66:10: “Be glad, O Jerusalem, and celebrate holy days in her. All you who love her, rejoice exceedingly, and all you who mourn over her; 
66:11: that you may nurse and be satisfied by the breast of her consolation; that you may take pleasure in nursing because of the entrance of her glory.” 
66:12: For thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will turn to them like a river of peace and like a brook, to flood them with the glory of the Gentiles. Their children shall be taken up on shoulders and comforted on knees. 
66:13: Like someone a mother comforts, so also will I comfort you, and you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.” 
66:14: You shall see, and your heart will rejoice. Your bones shall rise up like a pasture, and the Lord’s hand shall be known by those who fear Him; but He shall threaten the disobedient. 
66:15: For behold, the Lord shall come like a fire, and His chariots like a sudden blast of wind, to render His vengeance with anger and His renunciation with a flame of fire. 
66:16: For all the earth shall be judged in the fire of the Lord, and all flesh with His sword; and many shall be wounded by the Lord. 
66:17: “Those who purify and cleanse themselves in the gardens and porches, who eat the meat of a pig or any abomination, they shall be destroyed together at the same time,” says the Lord; 
66:18: “and I know their works and their reasoning. I am coming to gather all the nations and tongues, and they shall come and see My glory. 
66:19: And I will leave signs upon them, and those among them who are saved, I will send forth to the Gentiles: to Tarshish, and Pul and Lud and Tubal, and to Greece and to the coastlands far off, to those who have not heard My name, nor seen My glory; and they shall declare My glory among the Gentiles. 
66:20: They shall bring your brethren from among all the Gentiles as a gift to the Lord, with horses and chariots, in litters drawn by mules and covered with sunshades, to the holy city of Jerusalem,” says the Lord, “just as the children of Israel would bring Me their sacrifices with psalms into the house of the Lord. 
66:21: I shall take some of them to be My priests and Levites,” says the Lord. 
66:22: “For just as the new heaven and the new earth which I make shall remain before Me,” says the Lord, “so shall your seed and your name remain. 
66:23: It shall come to pass from month to month and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall worship before Me in Jerusalem,” says the Lord. 
66:24: “They shall go forth and see the dead bodies of the men who transgressed against Me, for their worm shall not die, and their fire shall not be extinguished; and they shall be a vision to all flesh.”

