10:1: “Woe to those who write evil things, for when they write such things, 
10:2: they turn aside judgment from the poor, and rob judgment from the needy of My people, that the widow may be their prey and the orphan a spoil. 
10:3: What will they do in the day of visitation? For affliction will come to you from afar, and to whom will you flee for help? Where will you leave your glory, 
10:4: so as not to fall into captivity?” For all this, His anger is not turned away, but His hand is still uplifted. 
10:5: “Woe to the Assyrians! The rod of My anger and wrath are in their hands. 
10:6: I will send My wrath against a lawless nation; and I will order My people to seize spoils and plunder, to trample down their cities, and turn them into dust. 
10:7: However, he does not think in the same way, nor does he consider the same thing in his soul; but his heart will change, so as to utterly destroy many nations. 
10:8: If they should say to him, ‘You alone are ruler,’ 
10:9: then he shall say, ‘Have not I taken the country above Babylon and Chalanne, where the tower was built, and taken Arabia, Damascus, and Samaria? 
10:10: As I took these with my hand, so also shall I take all the kingdoms. Wail, O carved images in Jerusalem and Samaria! 
10:11: For as I did to Samaria and the things made by human hands, so shall I do also to Jerusalem and her idols.’ ” 
10:12: But it shall come to pass, when the Lord has completed all He will do on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, He will go against the arrogant heart of the king of the Assyrians and the glory of his haughty looks. 
10:13: For he said, “I shall act in my strength and by the wisdom of my understanding. I also shall remove the boundaries of the nations and plunder their strength. I shall shake their inhabited cities. 
10:14: I shall overtake with my hand all the inhabited world as a nest, and take them as eggs that have been left. There is no one who can escape or oppose me.” 
10:15: Shall the ax glorify itself without him who chops with it? Or shall the saw exalt itself without him who saws with it? It is likewise if one should lift a rod or a piece of wood. 
10:16: But it shall not be so, for the Lord of hosts will send dishonor against your honor; and He will kindle a burning fire against your glory. 
10:17: So the Light of Israel will be as a fire, and He will sanctify him with burning fire; and it will devour the wood like grass on that day. 
10:18: The mountains, the hills, and the forests will be consumed, and devour both soul and body, and he who flees will be like one fleeing from a burning flame. 
10:19: Then the remnant will be few in number, and a child shall write them. 
10:20: It shall come to pass in that day that the remnant of Israel and those of Jacob who were saved will never again obey those who wronged them; but they will trust in God, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. 
10:21: The remnant of Jacob shall trust in the Mighty God. 
10:22: For though the people of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant of them shall be saved; for He shall accomplish the word and cut it short in righteousness. 
10:23: For God will accomplish the word and cut it short in all the world. 
10:24: Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts: “O My people who dwell in Zion, do not be afraid of the Assyrian, because he shall strike you with a rod; for I am bringing a stroke upon you, that you may see the way of Egypt. 
10:25: Yet in a very short while, the wrath will cease, but My anger shall be against their counsel.” 
10:26: For God will stir up enemies against them, as it was in the stroke against Midian in that place of affliction; and His anger shall be by way of the sea, in the way that leads to Egypt. 
10:27: Thus it shall come to pass in that day, his fear will be taken from you and his yoke from your shoulder, for the yoke shall be destroyed from off your shoulders. 
10:28: For he shall come to the city of Aiath and pass on to Migron and place his property at Michmash. 
10:29: He will pass along the valley and arrive at Aiath. Fear will seize Ramah, the city of Saul; the daughter of Gallim will flee, 
10:30: Laish will hear; Anathoth will hear; 
10:31: Madmenah was astounded, so too the inhabitants of Gebim. 
10:32: Urge them today to remain in the way. Comfort with your hand the mountain, the daughter of Zion, and the hills in Jerusalem. 
10:33: For behold, the Master, the Lord of hosts, will trouble the glorious ones with power, and the haughty in pride shall be crushed. The lofty will be humbled, 
10:34: and the high and mighty shall fall by the sword, and Lebanon, with its high and mighty ones.

