48:1: “Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel and have come forth from Judah, who swear by the name of the Lord God of Israel, mentioning it, but not with truth nor with righteousness, 
48:2: and who are devoted to the name of the holy city, and lean on the God of Israel for support—the Lord of hosts is His name. 
48:3: I still declare the former things that went forth from My mouth, and they became well known. Suddenly I did them, and they came to pass. 
48:4: I know you are stubborn, and your neck is an iron nerve; and your forehead is made of bronze. 
48:5: Yet I told you long ago, before it came to pass. I made it well known to you, lest you should say, ‘My idols did them’; and lest you should say, ‘My carved images and my molten images commanded them for me.’ 
48:6: You heard all this, yet you knew not what you heard. But I also made new things known to you, things about to happen from that present time; yet you said not so. 
48:7: Now they come to pass, and not long ago, but you did not listen to these things in former days. You do not say, ‘Yes, I know this.’ 
48:8: You neither know nor understand, nor have I opened your ears from the beginning. For I knew you would deal treacherously and reject them, and would be called lawless from the womb. 
48:9: For My name’s sake, I will show you My anger, and I will bring before you my glorious acts, so as not to utterly destroy you. 
48:10: Behold, I sold you, but not for silver; and I delivered you from the furnace of poverty. 
48:11: For My own sake, I will do this for you, because My name is profaned; and I will not give My glory to another. 
48:12: Listen to Me, O Jacob and Israel, whom I call: I am the first, and I am forever. 
48:13: My hand also laid the foundation of the earth, and My right hand established heaven. I shall call them, and they will stand together. 
48:14: All shall be gathered and hear: Who declared these things to them? Because I love you, I did your will against Babylon, to slay the seed of the Chaldeans. 
48:15: I have spoken, I have called him, I have brought him, and made his way prosper. 
48:16: Come near to Me, hear this: I have not spoken in secret from the beginning, nor did I speak in a dark place of the earth. When it took place, I was there, and now the Lord and His Spirit have sent Me.” 
48:17: Thus says the Lord who delivers you, the Holy One of Israel: “I am your God, who showed you how to find the way wherein you should walk. 
48:18: If only you had heeded My commandments, then your peace would be like a river, and your righteousness as a wave of the sea. 
48:19: Your seed would also be like the sand, and the offspring of your womb like the dust of the ground. Neither would you be utterly destroyed now, nor would your name perish before Me.” 
48:20: Go forth from Babylon, you who are fleeing from the Chaldeans. Proclaim a voice of gladness and let it become well known. Proclaim it to the end of the earth, and say, “The Lord delivered His servant Jacob.” 
48:21: If they shall thirst, He will lead them through the desert, and water shall flow from the rock for them. He will split the rock, the water shall flow, and My people will drink. 
48:22: “There is no rejoicing,” says the Lord, “for the ungodly.”

