29:1: Woe to the city of Ariel, against which David waged war! Gather fruits year by year, for you will eat with Moab. 
29:2: For I will afflict Ariel, and her strength and wealth will be mine. 
29:3: I will encircle you as David did, and I will put a barricade around you, and place towers around you. 
29:4: Your words will be humbled to the earth, and your words will sink into the earth. Your speech shall be like those calling out of the ground, and your voice weakened to the ground. 
29:5: Moreover the wealth of the ungodly shall be like the dust of a wheel and like dirt carried away. It shall be as though in an instant and suddenly 
29:6: from the Lord of hosts; for there will be a visitation with thunder and earthquake and a great noise, and a sudden blast of wind and a devouring flame of fire. 
29:7: The wealth of all the nations, as many as fought against Ariel, and all who wage war against Jerusalem, and all who gather against her and afflict her, shall be as one who dreams in the night. 
29:8: They shall be like those who eat and drink in a dream, and when they awake their dream was useless, and as a thirsty man dreams, as if he is drinking but is still thirsty when he wakes, and his soul hoped in vain, so will be the wealth of all the nations that fought against Mount Zion. 
29:9: Faint and be amazed; be overpowered, not with strong drink nor with wine, 
29:10: for the Lord made you drink a spirit of deep sleep, and He shall close their eyes and the eyes of their prophets and rulers, who see secret things. 
29:11: All these things shall be to you as the words of this sealed book, which if they should give to a learned man, saying, “Read this,” then he will say, “I cannot read this, for it is sealed.” 
29:12: This book shall also be placed in the hands of an unlearned man, and one shall say to him, “Read this,” then he will say, “I do not understand writings.” 
29:13: So the Lord said, “These people draw near to Me and honor Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me, and they worship Me in vain, teaching the commandments and doctrines of men. 
29:14: Therefore behold, I will proceed to remove this people, and I shall remove them. I shall destroy the wisdom of the wise and hide the understanding of the intelligent.” 
29:15: Woe to those who deepen their counsel, but not through the Lord! Woe to those who take counsel in secret and whose works are in darkness! They say, “Who sees us?” and, “Who knows us or what we do?” 
29:16: Shall you not be considered as the clay of the potter? Shall what is molded of clay say to him who molded it, “You did not create me”? Or shall the work say to him who made it, “You did not make me wisely”? 
29:17: Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be changed like Mount Carmel, and Mount Carmel be considered a forest? 
29:18: In that day, the deaf shall hear the words of the book, and the eyes of those in darkness and in a fog shall see. 
29:19: The poor also shall rejoice exceedingly in gladness because of the Lord, and the hopeless among men shall be filled with gladness. 
29:20: The lawless man has come to an end, and the arrogant man has perished. Those who act lawlessly in malice are utterly destroyed, 
29:21: as well as those who cause men to sin in word. They shall make all who condemn at the gates an offense, because they turned aside the righteous man with wrongdoing. 
29:22: Therefore the Lord says this concerning the house of Jacob, whom He set apart out of Abraham: “Now Jacob shall not be ashamed, nor shall Israel now change his countenance. 
29:23: But when their children see My works, they shall sanctify My name for My sake, and will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and fear the God of Israel. 
29:24: And those who erred in spirit shall know understanding, and those who complained will learn to obey, and the stammering tongues shall learn to speak peace.”

