14:1: For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob and will yet choose Israel to take rest in their land. The sojourner will be added to them, and they will be added to the house of Jacob. 
14:2: Then the Gentiles will take them and bring them to their place. They will inherit them, and they will multiply in God’s land as male and female servants. Those who captured them shall be captives to them, and those who ruled over them shall be ruled by them. 
14:3: Then it shall come to pass in that day that God will give you rest from your sorrow and anger and your hard slavery in which you served them. 
14:4: You shall take up this lamentation against the king of Babylon, and will say in that day, “How the exacter has ceased, and the compeller ceased! 
14:5: God broke the yoke of sinners in pieces, the yoke of the rulers, and 
14:6: in His anger He struck a nation with an incurable wound; and striking a nation with a plague of anger, which did not spare them, 
14:7: He rested in confidence. All the earth cries aloud with gladness. 
14:8: Indeed, the trees of Lebanon rejoice against you and the cedar of Lebanon, saying, ‘From the time you fell asleep, no one has come up to cut us down.’ 
14:9: Hades from below was embittered to meet you. All the mighty who ruled over the earth rose up to meet you. Those who raised from their thrones all the kings of the nations, 
14:10: all shall answer and say to you, ‘You also were conquered, even as we, and are numbered among us. 
14:11: Your glory and great gladness have come down to Hades. They will spread decay under you, and the worm will be your covering.’ 
14:12: How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, who rose up in the morning! He who sends for all the nations is crushed to the earth. 
14:13: For you said in your mind, ‘I will ascend into heaven; I will place my throne above the stars of heaven. I will sit on a lofty mountain, on the lofty mountains toward the north. 
14:14: I will ascend above the clouds; I will be like the Most High.’ 
14:15: But now you shall descend to Hades, to the foundations of the earth. 
14:16: Those who see you will marvel at you, and they will say, ‘This is the man who greatly upset the earth, who shook kingdoms, 
14:17: and who made all the inhabited world a desert. He destroyed its cities, and did not set free those in captivity.’ 
14:18: All the kings of the nations sleep in honor, every man in his house. 
14:19: But you shall be cast forth on the mountains like a loathsome dead person, with many dead pierced with swords who go down into Hades; and as a garment defiled in blood, you will not be clean. 
14:20: So you will not be clean, because you destroyed My land and killed My people. You, an evil seed, will not endure forever. 
14:21: Prepare your children for slaughter for the sins of their father, that they may not arise and inherit the earth, and fill it with wars.” 
14:22: “For I will rise up against them,” says the Lord of hosts, “and I will destroy their name, their remnant and their seed”—so says the Lord—
14:23: “and I will make Babylon a desert, that hedgehogs may dwell there; and it shall come to nothing; and I will make it a pit of clay for destruction.” 
14:24: Thus says the Lord of hosts: “As I said, so it shall come to pass. As I purposed, so it shall remain—
14:25: to destroy the Assyrians in My land and on My mountains. They shall be for trampling underfoot, and their yoke shall be taken away; and their renown shall be removed from their shoulders.” 
14:26: This is the purpose the Lord purposed upon all the inhabited world. His hand is lifted up over all the nations of the inhabited earth. 
14:27: For who will reject what the holy God purposed? Who will turn away His uplifted hand? 
14:28: In the year King Ahaz died, this word came: 
14:29: “Do not be glad, all you foreigners, for the yoke of him who struck you is broken to pieces. For from the seed of serpents shall come forth the young asps, and their offspring shall be flying serpents. 
14:30: The poor will be fed by him, and poor men will rest in peace, but he shall destroy your seed with hunger, and he will destroy your remnant. 
14:31: Wail, gates of the cities, cry out, troubled cities, even all the foreigners, for smoke is coming from the north, and you will be no more!” 
14:32: What will the kings of the nations answer? For the Lord founded Zion, and the humble of His people shall be saved.

