47:1: “Come down and sit on the ground, O virgin daughter of Babylon; enter the darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans, for you shall be prosperous no more, so as to be called comfortable and luxurious. 
47:2: Take a millstone and grind meal. Remove your veil, show your gray hair, uncover the shins, and pass through the rivers. 
47:3: Your shame will be uncovered, and your disgrace will be seen. I will take your standard of living from you, and no longer deliver people to you. 
47:4: He who delivers you has spoken; the Lord of hosts is His name, the Holy One of Israel. 
47:5: Sit down, you who are pierced to the heart; enter into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no longer be called the strength of a kingdom. 
47:6: I was provoked at My people; you profaned My inheritance; I gave them into your hand. You showed them no mercy; you laid your yoke very heavy on the elderly. 
47:7: You said, ‘I shall be a princess forever,’ but you did not understand these things in your heart, nor remember the latter end. 
47:8: Therefore hear this now, you who are given to pleasures, who sit in confidence, who says in her heart, ‘I am, and there is no other; I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know bereavement.’ 
47:9: But now these two things shall come upon you in a moment, in one day: widowhood and the loss of children. They shall come upon you in a moment because of your sorcery, the great abundance of your enchanters, 
47:10: and your hope of evil. For you said, ‘I am, and there is no other.’ Know that your understanding of these things and your fornication will be your shame, for you said in your heart, ‘I am, and there is no other.’ 
47:11: Therefore destruction shall come upon you, and you shall not know the pit into which you will fall. Trouble shall come upon you, and you will be unable to be clear of it. Destruction shall come upon you suddenly, but you will not know it. 
47:12: Stand now with your enchantments and the multitude of your sorceries which you learned from your youth, if you will be able to profit from this. 
47:13: You are wearied in your counsels. Let the astrologers, the stargazers, and the monthly prognosticators stand up and save you from what shall come upon you. 
47:14: Behold, all these shall be burned like sticks in a fire, and they shall not deliver their soul from the flame. For you have coals of fire to sit on, and these shall be your help. 
47:15: You grew weary in your traffic from youth, and each man led himself astray, but there shall be no salvation for you.

