57:1: See how the righteous man perishes, and no one takes it to heart. Righteous men are taken away, and no one notices it; and the righteous man is taken away from the presence of wrongdoing. 
57:2: His burial shall be in peace, for he was taken from the midst of it. 
57:3: “But come here, you lawless sons, a seed of adulterers and of a prostitute. 
57:4: In whom did you delight? And against whom did you open your mouth? Against whom did you loosen your tongue? Are you not the children of destruction, a lawless seed? 
57:5: You are those who call upon their idols under leafy trees and slay their children in the midst of the rocks. 
57:6: That is your portion, this is your lot, for you poured out drink offerings to them, and to them you offered up sacrifices; therefore, shall I not be angry for these things? 
57:7: On a high and lofty mountain, there was your bed, and there you carried up your sacrifices. 
57:8: Also behind the posts of your door, you put your memorials. You supposed if you departed from Me, it would be a better thing. You loved those who slept with you, 
57:9: and multiplied your fornication with them. You increased their number far away from you, and sent ambassadors beyond your borders. You turned aside and humbled yourselves, even to Hades. 
57:10: You grew weary with many ways, but you did not say, ‘I will cease strengthening myself,’ for you practiced these things; therefore, you did not supplicate Me. 
57:11: Whom did you respect and fear, so as to lie to Me, and not remember Me, nor take Me into your heart and mind? So when I see you, I disregard you, for you do not fear Me. 
57:12: And I will declare My righteousness, and your evils, which will not profit you. 
57:13: When you cry out, let them deliver you in your tribulation, for wind and storm will take them and carry them all away. But those who hold fast to Me shall possess the land and inherit My holy mountain. 
57:14: They shall say, ‘Cleanse the ways before His face, and take away the obstacles from the way of My people.’ ” 
57:15: The Lord, the Most High who dwells on high forever, the Holy One among His saints, whose name is the Lord Most High, who rests among His saints, and who gives patience to the fainthearted and life to the broken-hearted, says this: 
57:16: “I will not punish you forever, nor will I always be angry with you, for My Spirit shall go forth from Me, and I made every breath. 
57:17: Because of sin for a time I grieved him, and struck him, and turned away My face from him; and he was grieved, and he went on sorrowful in his ways. 
57:18: I saw his ways, and healed him; and I comforted him, and gave him true comfort. 
57:19: There is peace upon peace to those far off and those near; and the Lord says, ‘I will heal them.’ 
57:20: But wrongdoers shall be tossed here and there by waves, and be unable to rest. 
57:21: There is no joy to the ungodly,” says the Lord God.

