19:1: Behold, the Lord sits on a swift cloud and shall come to Egypt, and the things made by hands in Egypt shall be shaken by His presence, and their heart shall be overcome within them. 
19:2: “Egyptians shall be stirred up against Egyptians, and a man shall fight against his brother, and a man against his neighbor, city against city and law against law. 
19:3: The spirit of the Egyptians will be troubled within them, and I will reject their counsel, and they shall consult their gods and their statues, and those who speak from the earth and are ventriloquists. 
19:4: And I will deliver Egypt into the hands of harsh lords and kings who will rule over them,” thus says the Lord of hosts. 
19:5: And the Egyptians will drink water from the sea, for the river will run dry and have no water. 
19:6: The streams and canals of the river will fail; and every reservoir shall dry up, as well as every marsh of reed and papyrus. 
19:7: All the greenery around the river and everything sown alongside the river shall be blasted by the wind and dried up. 
19:8: The fishermen will also groan, and all who cast a fishhook into the river will also lament, and those who cast dragnets and the anglers shall mourn. 
19:9: Shame shall fall on those who work fine flax, and those who weave fine fabric will be ashamed. 
19:10: Those who work these things will be in pain. All who make strong drink shall grieve and suffer in their souls. 
19:11: The rulers of Tanis are fools. As for the king’s wise counselors, their counsel will be turned into foolishness. How will you say to the king, “We are sons of the wise, we are sons of kings of old”? 
19:12: Where are your wise men now? Let them now tell you, and let them say what the Lord of hosts planned against Egypt. 
19:13: The rulers of Tanis have failed, and the rulers of Memphis are exalted, and they shall lead Egypt astray according to tribes. 
19:14: For the Lord prepared for them a spirit of error, and they led Egypt astray in all their works, like a drunken man who staggers and vomits. 
19:15: There shall be no work for the Egyptians that will bring about employer and employee, and beginning and completion. 
19:16: In that day, the Egyptians shall be like women in fear and trembling because of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which He shall lay upon them. 
19:17: The country of the Jews will be a terror to the Egyptians. If anyone mentions it to them, they will be in fear, because of the counsel the Lord purposed concerning it. 
19:18: In that day, five cities in the land of Egypt will speak the language of Canaan and swear by the name of the Lord; one city will be called the City of Justice. 
19:19: In that day, there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the country of Egypt and a pillar to the Lord at its border. 
19:20: It will be a sign forever to the Lord in the country of Egypt, for they will cry to the Lord because of their oppressors, and the Lord will send them a Man who will save them. He will judge and save them. 
19:21: Then the Lord will be known to the Egyptians, and in that day the Egyptians will know the Lord and offer sacrifices. Yes, they will make vows to the Lord and pay them. 
19:22: The Lord shall strike the Egyptians with a great wound and completely heal them. They will return to the Lord, and He shall hear and heal them. 
19:23: In that day there will be a road from Egypt to Assyria. The Assyrians will come into Egypt and the Egyptians into Assyria. The Egyptians will serve with the Assyrians. 
19:24: In that day, Israel will be one of three with the Egyptians and Assyrians; a blessing in the land, 
19:25: which the Lord of hosts blessed, saying, “Blessed are my people in Egypt, and in Assyria and Israel, My inheritance.”

