65:1: “I was manifest to those who did not seek Me; I was found by those who did not ask for Me. I said, ‘Behold, I am here,’ to a nation that did not call on My name. 
65:2: I stretched out My hands the whole day long to a people who disobeyed and contradicted Me, who did not walk in the true way, but after their sins. 
65:3: This is a people who provoke Me continually to My face. They sacrifice in gardens and burn incense on bricks to the demons, which do not exist; 
65:4: and they sleep in graves and caves for the sake of dreams, they who eat swine’s flesh and the sauce of their sacrifices, which defiles all their vessels; 
65:5: who say, ‘Stay away from me; do not come near me, for I am clean.’ This is the smoke of My anger; a fire burns in it all day long. 
65:6: Behold, it is written before Me: I will not be silent,” says the Lord, “until I repay into their bosom their sins and the sins of their fathers, 
65:7: who burned incense on the mountains and reproached Me on the hills. I will repay their works into their bosom.” 
65:8: Thus says the Lord: “As the grape shall be found in a cluster, and they shall say, ‘Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing from the Lord in it,’ so shall I do for the sake of him who serves Me. For his sake I will not destroy them all. 
65:9: I will bring forth the seed of Jacob and the seed of Judah, and they shall inherit My holy mountain. My elect shall inherit it, and My servants shall dwell there. 
65:10: There shall be in the forest a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor shall be for the resting place of herds for My people who sought Me. 
65:11: But you are those who forsook Me, and forget My holy mountain, and prepare a table for the devil, and fill a drink-offering to Fortune. 
65:12: I will deliver you to the sword, and all of you shall fall in the slaughter; because I called you, but you did not obey; I spoke, but you refused to listen. You did evil in My sight, and did not choose the things I willed.” 
65:13: Therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold, My servants shall eat, but you shall hunger. Behold, My servants shall drink, but you shall thirst. Behold, My servants shall be glad, but you shall be ashamed. 
65:14: Behold, My servants shall rejoice exceedingly in gladness, but you shall cry out because of the pain in your heart; and you shall wail from the crushing of your spirit. 
65:15: For you shall leave your name as an example of excess to My elect, and the Lord shall destroy you. But those who serve Him shall be called by a new name, 
65:16: which shall be blessed upon the earth. For they shall bless the true God, and those who swear upon the earth shall swear by the true God; for they shall forget their former tribulation, and it shall not come into their heart. 
65:17: “For there shall be a new heaven and a new earth, and they shall not remember the former things, nor shall these things come into their heart. 
65:18: But they shall find gladness and exceeding joy in her, for behold, I will make Jerusalem an exceeding joy, and My people gladness. 
65:19: I will rejoice exceedingly in Jerusalem, and I will be glad in My people. There shall no longer be heard in her a voice of weeping, nor a voice of crying. 
65:20: There shall not be the untimely death of a child there, nor shall there be an old man who does not fulfill his time. For a young man shall be a hundred years old, but a sinner who dies at a hundred years old shall be cursed. 
65:21: They shall build houses and dwell in them; and they shall plant vineyards and eat their produce. 
65:22: But they shall not build, and others inhabit; and they shall not plant, and others eat. For according to the days of the tree of life, so shall be the days of My people, and the works of their labors shall not grow old. 
65:23: My elect shall not labor in vain, nor shall they bear children to be a curse; for they are a seed blessed by God; and their offspring shall be with them. 
65:24: It shall be, before they cry out, I will listen to them; while they are still speaking, I will say, ‘What is it?’ 
65:25: The wolves and lambs shall feed together, and the lion, like the ox, shall eat chaff; and the serpent, the ground as bread. They shall not injure, neither destroy in My holy mountain,” says the Lord.

