13:1: The vision against Babylon seen by Isaiah the son of Amoz: 
13:2: “Lift up a sign on the mountain of the plain and raise your voice to them. Do not fear; comfort with your hand; open the gates, O you rulers. 
13:3: I command and I lead them. They are sanctified, and I lead them. My mighty ones come to fulfill My anger—rejoicing and insulting at the same time.” 
13:4: The sound of many nations upon the mountains, like that of many nations, the voice of kings and nations gathered together—the Lord of hosts commanded a warring nation 
13:5: to come from a far country, from the end of heaven, the Lord and His weapons, to destroy all the inhabited world. 
13:6: Wail, for the day of the Lord is at hand, and destruction will come from God. 
13:7: Therefore every hand will grow weary, and every man’s soul will be fearful. 
13:8: The elders will be troubled. Pangs will take hold of them, like a woman in childbirth, and they will wail at one another and be amazed; and their countenance shall change like a flame. 
13:9: Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, a day that cannot be averted, a day of anger and wrath, to make all the inhabited world a desert, and to destroy the sinners from it. 
13:10: For the stars of heaven and Orion and all the ornament of heaven will not give their light. It will be dark when the sun goes forth, and the moon will not give its light. 
13:11: “I will command evils for all the inhabited world and the ungodly because of their sins, and I will destroy the insolence of the lawless and humble the haughtiness of the arrogant. 
13:12: Those left behind will be more valuable than fine gold tried in the fire, and a man more precious than the stone of Ophir. 
13:13: For heaven will be angry, and the earth will be shaken from its foundations because of the fierce anger of the Lord of hosts, in the day His anger comes. 
13:14: Those who are left shall be as the fleeing gazelle and as a wandering sheep, and there shall be no one to gather them, that a man may return to his own people and a man may seek his own country. 
13:15: For whoever is taken will be overcome, and those who are gathered together will fall by the sword. 
13:16: Their children also will be dashed before their eyes. They shall plunder their houses and possess their wives. 
13:17: Behold, I will stir up the Medes against you, who will not regard silver, neither do they have need of gold. 
13:18: They will break in pieces the bows of the young, and show your children no mercy; nor will their eyes spare your children. 
13:19: It shall be that Babylon, called glorious by the king of the Chaldeans, will be as when God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. 
13:20: It shall never be inhabited, nor will any enter it for many generations. Neither shall the Arabians pass through it, nor will shepherds take their rest in it. 
13:21: But wild animals of the desert will rest there, and their houses will be filled with noise. Sirens will rest there, and demons will dance there. 
13:22: Donkey-centaurs will dwell there, and hedgehogs will make dens in their homes. It will come quickly and not delay.”

