28:1: Woe to the crown of arrogance, the hirelings of Ephraim, the flower that fell from the glory on top of the fertile mountain, those who are drunk without wine. 
28:2: Behold, the anger of the Lord is a strong and harsh thing, like a falling hail where there is no shelter, falling violently like a great force of water, sweeping away the country. He shall bring relief for the earth with His hands. 
28:3: The crown of arrogance, the hirelings of Ephraim, will be trampled underfoot. 
28:4: But the flower that fell from the hope of the glory on the top of the high mountain shall be like the forerunner of the fig. He who sees it wishes to swallow it before he gets it in his hand. 
28:5: In that day, the Lord of hosts shall be the crown of hope, woven of glory, to the remnant of My people. 
28:6: They shall be left in a spirit of judgment upon judgment and for the strength of those who prevent slaying. 
28:7: For these are led astray with wine and are deceived by strong drink. Priest and prophet are out of their minds by reason of wine; they stagger because of drunkenness; they go astray. This is delusion. 
28:8: A curse will devour this counsel, for this counsel was for the sake of covetousness. 
28:9: To whom have we reported evils and declared a message? Those weaned from milk and withdrawn from the breasts. 
28:10: Expect affliction upon affliction, hope upon hope, yet a little, yet a little. 
28:11: By reason of the contempt of lips and another tongue they will speak to this people, 
28:12: saying to them, “This is the rest for the hungry, and this is the affliction,” but they would not listen. 
28:13: The teaching of the Lord God will be for them affliction upon affliction, hope upon hope, yet a little, yet a little, so they may go and fall backward; and they will be in danger, crushed and conquered. 
28:14: Therefore hear the word of the Lord, you afflicted men and rulers of this people in Jerusalem. 
28:15: Because you said, “We made a covenant with Hades, and are in agreement with death, and if the rushing storm passes through, it will not come upon us, for we made falsehood our hope, and in falsehood we shall be protected”; 
28:16: therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold, I lay for the foundations of Zion a costly stone, a chosen and precious cornerstone for its foundations, and whoever believes in Him will not be put to shame. 
28:17: I will also cause judgment to be for hope, and My mercy to be for a standard. The sudden blast of wind will not pass by you who trust vainly in falsehood, 
28:18: except it also take away your covenant of death. Your hope in Hades will also not stand when the rushing storm passes through, for you will be beaten down by it. 
28:19: When it passes through, it will take you; for morning by morning it will pass through by day, and by night there will be an evil hope.” Learn to listen, 
28:20: you in difficult straits. We cannot fight, and we ourselves are too weak to gather ourselves together. 
28:21: As the mountain of the ungodly will rise up and be in the valley of Gibeon, He will do His deeds in anger, a work of bitterness. His anger will behave strangely, and His bitterness will be strange. 
28:22: So do not be glad, neither let your bands become strong; because I heard from the Lord of hosts the things He will perform upon all the earth. 
28:23: Give ear and hear my voice. Listen and hear my words. 
28:24: Will the plowman plow all day? Or will he prepare the seed before he cultivates the ground? 
28:25: When he levels its surface, does he not then sow the small black cummin, and afterward sow the wheat, the barley, and the one seeded wheat in your borders? 
28:26: So you will be chastised by the judgment of your God and be gladdened by it. 
28:27: For the black cummin is not cleansed with harshness, nor will the wheel of a wagon roll over the cummin; but the black cummin is threshed with a stick, and the cummin 
28:28: will be eaten with bread. For I will not be angry with you forever, nor will the voice of my bitterness trample you underfoot. 
28:29: These signs came forth from the Lord of hosts. Take counsel; exalt vain comfort.

