32:1: The Lord says this: “Blessed is he who has a seed in Zion and kindred in Jerusalem. For behold, a righteous King shall reign, and rulers will govern with judgment. 
32:2: A Man will hide His words, and be hidden as from flowing water; and He will appear in Zion as a glorious river flowing in a thirsty land. 
32:3: And they will no longer trust in men, but their ears will incline to listen. 
32:4: The heart of the sick will pay attention to listen, and the tongues that stammer will learn quickly to speak peace.” 
32:5: Let them no longer tell a fool to rule, nor let Your servants say any longer, “Be silent.” 
32:6: For the fool will speak foolishness, and his heart will think vain things: to practice lawlessness, to speak error against the Lord, to scatter hungry souls, and to make thirsty souls empty. 
32:7: For the counsel of evil men plans lawlessness, to destroy the humble with unjust words, and to scatter the words of the humble with judgment. 
32:8: But the godly plan wise things, and this counsel remains. 
32:9: Rise up, you rich women, and hear my voice. You daughters with hope, listen to my words. 
32:10: In pain, yet with hope, remember that for a full year the harvest will be consumed and cease. It shall by no means come again. 
32:11: Be amazed, be grieved, you confident ones. Strip yourselves, and gird your loins with sackcloth. 
32:12: Beat upon your breasts because of the desirable fields and the fruit of the vine. 
32:13: On the land of my people, thorns and grass will come up, and gladness will be taken from every house. As for the rich city, 
32:14: the houses are deserted, and they will leave behind the wealth of the city and desirable houses. The villages will become caves forever, and the gladness of wild donkeys and pastures of shepherds—
32:15: until the Spirit comes upon you from on high, and the desert becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is counted as a forest. 
32:16: Then judgment will take rest in the desert, and righteousness shall dwell in Carmel. 
32:17: The works of righteousness will be peace, and righteousness shall ensure rest and confidence forever. 
32:18: His people will dwell in a city of peace, and will dwell in confidence, and they will rest with riches. 
32:19: Though hail should come down, it would not fall upon you, and those who dwell in the forests shall be as confident as those in the plain. 
32:20: Blessed are those who sow beside all waters, where the ox and the donkey tread.

