7:1: And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, there came up Rezin king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, against Jerusalem to war against it; but they could not conquer it. 
7:2: Then it was reported to the house of David, saying, “Syria’s forces made an agreement with Ephraim.” So his soul and the soul of his people was confounded, as a tree of the woods is shaken by the wind. 
7:3: Then the Lord said to Isaiah, “Go out now to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-Jashub your son, at the end of the aqueduct from the upper pool, on the highway to the Fuller’s Field, 
7:4: and say to him, ‘Guard yourself and be silent; do not fear, neither let your soul be disheartened because of these two stubs of smoking firebrands, for when My fierce anger is over, again I shall heal. 
7:5: The son of Syria and the son of Remaliah have plotted evil against you, saying, 
7:6: “Let us go up against Judah and talk with them, and let us turn them to our side, and let us make the son of Tabel king of it.” 
7:7: Thus says the Lord of hosts: “This counsel shall not continue, nor shall it come to pass. 
7:8: But the head of Syria is Damascus; nevertheless, in sixty-five years the kingdom of Ephraim will cease being a people. 
7:9: Also the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah’s son, and if you do not believe this, neither will you understand it.” ’ ” 
7:10: Moreover the Lord added this to Ahaz, saying, 
7:11: “Ask a sign for yourself from the Lord your God; ask it either in the depth or in the height above.” 
7:12: But Ahaz said, “I will not ask, nor will I tempt the Lord.” 
7:13: Then Isaiah said, “Hear now, O house of David, is it a small thing for you to weary men, but will you weary the Lord also? 
7:14: Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign: behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a Son, and you shall call His name Immanuel. 
7:15: Butter and honey He shall eat before He knows to prefer evil or choose the good, 
7:16: for before the Child knows good or evil, He refuses the evil to choose the good; and the land you fear because of the presence of the two kings will be abandoned. 
7:17: But God will bring the king of Assyria upon you, your people and your father’s house—days that have not yet come, from the days Ephraim took away from Judah the king of the Assyrians.” 
7:18: And it shall come to pass in that day, the Lord will whistle for the fly that rules over part of the river of Egypt, and for the bee in the land of Assyria. 
7:19: All of them will come and rest in the ravines of the country, in the clefts of the rocks, in the caves and every crevice and tree. 
7:20: In that day, the Lord will shave—with a large and blood-drenched razor belonging to the king of Assyria beyond the river—the head and the hair of the legs, and will also remove the beard. 
7:21: It shall be in that day, a man will rear a heifer and two sheep. 
7:22: So it shall be, from the abundance of milk they give, everyone left in the land will eat butter and honey. 
7:23: It shall happen in that day, wherever there could be a thousand vines worth a thousand shekels of silver, it will be a barren land with thorn-plants. 
7:24: Men will enter there with bows and arrows, for all the land will be barren and with thorn-plants. 
7:25: Every mountain shall certainly be plowed, and there shall be no fear there from barren land and thorn-plants, for it will be a pasture for sheep and a place for oxen to roam.

