30:1: Against Edom. Thus says the Lord: “Wisdom is no longer in Teman. Counsel perished from the intelligent; their wisdom is gone. 
30:2: Their place is deceived. Those dwelling in Dedan dig deep for a place to dwell, for you caused troubles. So I brought troubles upon him in the time I visited him. 
30:3: For those who gather grapes shall come to you, and they will not leave you a remnant. Like thieves by night, they will lay their hands upon your possessions. 
30:4: For I pulled down Esau, and uncovered their secret places. They shall be unable to hide themselves. They perished, each by the hand of his brother and his neighbor, 
30:5: and it is not possible for the orphan to remain alive, but I shall live, and the widows will trust in Me.” 
30:6: For thus says the Lord: “Those not appointed to drink the cup drank it, and you shall not remain unpunished, nor without blame, for you will certainly drink it.” 
30:7: For the Lord says, “I swore by Myself, that you shall become impassable and a disgrace, and you shall become a curse in her midst. All her cities shall be a perpetual desert. 
30:8: I heard a report from the Lord, and He sent messengers to the nations, saying, ‘Assemble yourselves, and come against her. Rise up for war. 
30:9: I made you small among nations, contemptible among men. 
30:10: Your insolence has risen up against you. The rashness of your heart has broken up the holes of the rocks, and has seized the strength of the lofty hill. For like an eagle, he has set his nest on high, but from there I will bring you down. 
30:11: Edom shall be inaccessible, and everyone who passes by will hiss at it.’ 
30:12: As Sodom and Gomorrah were overthrown, along with their sojourners,” says the Lord Almighty, “so no man shall sit there, nor shall any son of man dwell there. 
30:13: Behold, one will come up like a lion from the midst of the Jordan, to the place of Aitham, for I will quickly drive them out from it. Do you set young men against her? For who is like Me? Who will oppose Me? Who is this shepherd who will stand against Me?” 
30:14: Therefore hear the counsel of the Lord which He purposed against Edom, and His plan which He calculated against the inhabitants of Teman. Surely the least of the sheep are swept away; surely their dwelling place shall be laid waste for them. 
30:15: For at the sound of their fall the earth shook, and your outcry was heard in the sea. 
30:16: Behold, He shall look upon her as an eagle, and spread forth His wings over her stronghold. In that day, the heart of the strong men of Edom shall be as the heart of a woman with pains of childbirth. 
30:17: Against the sons of Ammon. Thus says the Lord: “Are there no sons in Israel? Or have they no one to succeed them? Why then did Malcom receive Gad, and why will their people dwell in their cities? 
30:18: Therefore behold, the days are coming,” says the Lord, “when I will cause an uproar of war to be heard in Rabbah. They shall be impassable and in utter ruin. Her altars shall burn with fire. Then Israel shall take possession of his dominion. 
30:19: Wail loudly, O Heshbon, for Gai has perished. Cry out, you daughters of Rabbah, and gird yourselves with sackcloth. Be frenzied and lament over Malcom, for he shall go into captivity, together with his priests and rulers. 
30:20: Why, O haughty daughter, do you rejoice exceedingly in the plains of Enakim? You who trusted in your own treasures, saying, ‘Who shall come against me?’ 
30:21: Behold, I will bring fear upon you from all who live around you. Each of you shall be scattered before his face, and there will be no one to gather you.” 
30:22: Against Kedar, queen of the court, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, struck. Thus says the Lord: “Arise, go up to Kedar, and fill the sons of Kedem. 
30:23: They will seize their tents and their sheep. They shall take their garments, all their vessels and their camels for themselves. Summon destruction against them from every side. 
30:24: Flee! Dig very deep for a dwelling place, you who sit in the court, for the king of Babylon counsels against you, and prepares a plan against you. 
30:25: “Rise up, and go against a nation settled and dwelling at ease, who have neither gates, nor pins and bars, and who dwell alone. 
30:26: Their camels shall be for booty, and the multitude of their cattle for destruction. I will scatter them as chaff with every wind, having their hair cut about their foreheads. I will bring their overthrow from every side. 
30:27: The court shall be a resting place for sparrows, and untrodden forever. No man shall settle there, nor shall a son of man dwell in it,” says the Lord. 
30:28: Against Damascus. “Hamath and Arpad are put to shame, for they heard the evil report. They are surprised. They are so angry, they are unable to rest. 
30:29: Damascus is utterly weakened. She is put to flight. Trembling has seized her. How has she not abandoned My city in their love for the village? 
30:31: Therefore the young men shall fall in your streets, and all your warriors shall fall. 
30:32: For I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall engulf the streets of Ben-Hadad,” says the Lord.

