48:1: Now it came to pass in the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal family, came with ten men to Gedaliah at Mizpah. There they ate bread together. 
48:2: Then Ishmael and the ten men with him, arose and struck Gedaliah, whom the king of Babylon appointed over the land, 
48:3: and all the Jews with him at Mizpah, and all the Chaldeans found there. 
48:4: It came to pass on the second day after he struck Gedaliah, while no one yet knew, 
48:5: that eighty men came from Shechem, Salem and Samaria, with beards shaved, tearing their clothes and beating their breasts. In their hands were manna and frankincense, to bring into the house of the Lord. 
48:6: Now Ishmael went out to meet with them, and they walked and wept. He said to them, “Come to Gedaliah.” 
48:7: Then it came to pass, that when they entered into the midst of the city, he killed them at the well. 
48:8: But ten men were found there among them, and they said to Ishmael, “Do not kill us, for we have treasures of wheat, barley, honey, and oil in the field.” So he passed by, and did not kill them in the midst of their brethren. 
48:9: Now the well into which Ishmael cast all whom he killed is the great well King Asa made for fear of Baasha king of Israel. Thus Ishmael filled this with the slain. 
48:10: After this, Ishmael brought back all the people left in Mizpah, including the daughter of the king whom the captain of the guard committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, then he went away beyond the sons of Ammon. 
48:11: But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the army with him, heard of all the evil things Ishmael did, 
48:12: and they brought their entire army to wage war against him. They found him near the great pool in Gibeon. 
48:13: So it came to pass, when all the people with Ishmael saw Johanan, and the leaders of the army with him, 
48:14: they returned to Johanan. 
48:15: But Ishmael escaped with eight men, and went to the sons of Ammon. 
48:16: Then Johanan, and all the leaders of the army with him, brought back all of the remaining people whom he took from Ishmael: the mighty men of war, all the women and the rest, and the eunuchs, whom they brought back from Gibeon. 
48:17: They departed, and encamped in Gaberoth-Chimham, towards Bethlehem, to go into Egypt, 
48:18: away from the presence of the Chaldeans, for they were afraid of them, because Ishmael killed Gedaliah, whom the king of Babylon appointed over the land.

