31:1: Against Moab. Thus says the Lord: “Woe to Nebo for they are undone. Kirjathaim is taken. Amath is dishonored in its shame, and defeated. 
31:2: There is no longer any healing for Moab, nor insolence in Heshbon. He has planned evils against her. We cut her off from being a nation, and she will cease completely. A sword will go after you, 
31:3: for a voice cries out of Horonaim, death and great destruction. 
31:4: Moab is crushed; proclaim the destruction to Zogora. 
31:5: For Luhith is filled with weeping. One will go up weeping on the road of Horonaim. You have heard a cry of destruction. 
31:6: Flee, and save your lives, for you shall be like a wild donkey in the desert! 
31:7: Since you trusted in your strongholds; therefore, you will be taken, and Chemosh shall go forth into captivity, together with his priests and rulers. 
31:8: Destruction shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape. The valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be utterly destroyed, as the Lord said. 
31:9: Set a sign on Moab, for she shall be set ablaze; and all her cities shall be inaccessible. From what place shall they come to inhabit her? 
31:10: “Cursed is the man who does the work of the Lord carelessly, keeping back his sword from blood. 
31:11: Moab has been at ease from his youth, and trusted in his glory. He has not been poured out from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into exile. Therefore his taste is established within himself, and the smell of it does not cease. 
31:12: “Therefore behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when I will send him those who put others to flight, and they will put him to flight. They shall thrash his possessions, and cut up his horns. 
31:13: Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel their hope, having trusted in them. 
31:14: How will you say, ‘We are strong, a people skilled in war?’ 
31:15: Moab, his city, is ruined, and his choice young men have gone down to the slaughter. 
31:16: The day of Moab is near at hand, and the evil he did moves swiftly to judgment. 
31:17: All you who surround him, move against him. All you who know his name say, ‘How is the renowned staff broken, the rod of might?’ 
31:18: “Come down from your glory, and sit down in a damp place. Be utterly destroyed, O Dibon, because Moab is ruined. One has gone up against you to ravage your stronghold. 
31:19: You that sit in Aroer, stand by the road and look. Ask him who flees and the one who escapes, and say, ‘What happened?’ 
31:20: Moab is put to shame, for he is broken. Wail and cry! Proclaim in Arnon that Moab is ruined. 
31:21: Judgment comes upon the land of Misor, and upon Holon, Jahzah and Mephaath, 
31:22: and upon Dibon, Nebo and the house of Diblathaim, 
31:23: and upon Kirjathaim and the houses of Gamul and Meon, 
31:24: and upon Kerioth and Bozrah, and the houses of Moab, those far and near. 
31:25: “The horn of Moab is crushed, and his arm is broken. 
31:26: Make him drunk, for he exalted himself against the Lord. Moab shall clap with his hand, but he himself will be a laughingstock. 
31:27: For surely, was not Israel a laughingstock to you? Was he not found to be one of your stolen things, because you fought against him? 
31:28: The inhabitants of Moab have abandoned their cities, and now dwell in the rocks. They have become like doves nestling in the rocks, at the mouth of a cave. 
31:29: I heard about the insolence of Moab, how he greatly increased his insolence and arrogance, and exalted his heart. 
31:30: But I know his works, how they are not yet sufficient for him, to satisfy his haughtiness. 
31:31: “Therefore, cry aloud on all sides against Moab. Cry out against the men of Kirheres, a dried-up place. 
31:32: I mourn deeply for you, O vine of Sibmah, as with the weeping of Jazer. Your branches reached across the sea, and touched Jazer. Destruction came upon your fruit, and upon those who gather your grapes. 
31:33: Joyfulness and gladness are swept away from the land of Moab, for there is no wine in your winepresses. In the morning, there are none to trample the grapes, neither in the evening, any to shout at the joy of harvest. 
31:34: From the crying of Heshbon even to Elealeh, and from Zogor as far as Horonaim, and Aglath-Salisia, their cities uttered their voice, for the water of Nimrim shall be dried-up. 
31:35: “I will destroy Moab,” says the Lord, “as he comes up to the altar, and burns incense to his gods. 
31:36: Therefore, the heart of Moab shall make a humming noise like flutes. My heart will hum like a flute for the men of Kirheres, for whatever each man has gained has perished from him. 
31:37: They will shave every head in every place, and every beard will be shaved. All hands will beat their chests, and sackcloth shall be over every back. 
31:38: There will be mourning in all the houses of Moab, and on his streets, for I have broken Moab in pieces,” says the Lord, “like a useless vessel. 
31:39: How did Moab change? How did he turn about? Moab is put to shame, and he became a laughingstock and an object of anger to all round about him.” 
31:40: For thus says the Lord: 
31:41: “Kerioth is taken, and the strongholds are seized. 
31:42: Moab shall perish from being a multitude, because he exalted himself against the Lord. 
31:43: A snare, fear and a pit are upon you, O inhabitant of Moab. 
31:44: He who flees before the fear shall fall into the pit, and he who gets out of the pit shall be caught in the snare. For I will bring these things upon Moab in the year of his visitation.”

