8:1: “At that time,” says the Lord, “they shall bring out of their graves the bones of the kings of Judah and its rulers, the bones of the priests and the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
8:2: They shall dry them before the sun and the moon, and before all the stars and the hosts of heaven, which they loved and served, and after which they walked, devoted themselves, and worshiped. They are not to be mourned, nor buried; but they are to be an example on the face of the earth 
8:3: because they chose death rather than life. They are also to be an example to all the remnant left from that generation, in every place wherever I banish them.” 
8:4: For thus says the Lord: “Will not he who falls arise? Or he who turns away, will he not return? 
8:5: Why therefore has this My people turned away from Me in a shameful way, strengthened themselves in their choice, and were not willing to return? 
8:6: Indeed, give ear and listen. Will they not speak thus: ‘There is no man who repents of his vices, saying, “What have I done?” ’ The runner ceases to run his race, as a sweating horse ceases to run when he is tired. 
8:7: Even the stork in the sky knows her appointed time, as do the turtledove and the swallow of the field. The sparrows watch for the times of their coming. But My people do not know the judgments of the Lord. 
8:8: “How can you say, ‘We are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us?’ The lying pen becomes vanity for the scribes. 
8:9: Wise men are put to shame and convicted, for they rejected the word of the Lord. What wisdom is in them? 
8:10: I will give their wives and fields to others as an inheritance. 
8:11: They will gather together their fruits. There are no grapes on the vines, nor figs on the fig trees, and the leaves have fallen off. 
8:12: They will say, ‘Why do we sit still? Assemble yourselves, and let us enter the strong cities. Let us be rejected, for God has cast us out, and given us gall to drink, because we sinned against Him. 
8:13: Let us come together for peace, but there was nothing good, and for a time of healing, but behold, trouble. 
8:14: We will hear the swift sound of His horses coming from Dan.’ The whole land quakes from the neighing of His horse-drawn chariots. He will come and devour the land and its fulness, the city and those who dwell in it. 
8:15: For behold, I send forth lethal serpents among you, for which there are no charms. 
8:16: They shall bite you mortally with the pain of your disturbed heart. 
8:17: “Behold, the voice of the daughter of my people cries out from a far land, ‘Is not the Lord in Zion? Is her King not there?’ No, because they provoked Me to anger with their carved images and foreign vanities. 
8:18: They will say, ‘The summer is gone, the harvest is past, and we are not saved.’ ” 
8:19: I am saddened because of the ruin of the daughter of my people. Pains have seized me, as one who gives birth. 
8:20: Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician? Why is no healing taking place for the daughter of my people? 
8:21: Who will give water to my head and a fountain of tears to my eyes, that I might weep day and night for this people of mine, for the wounded of the daughter of my people?

