44:1: Then Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar appointed to reign over Judah. 
44:2: But neither he nor his servants nor the people of the land gave heed to the words of the Lord, which He spoke by the hand of Jeremiah. 
44:3: Then Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the priest, son of Maaseiah, to Jeremiah, saying, “Indeed, pray to the Lord for us.” 
44:4: Now Jeremiah came and passed through the midst of the city, and they did not put him in the prison. 
44:5: Then the army of Pharaoh came up from Egypt; and the Chaldeans heard the report concerning them, and they departed from Jerusalem. 
44:6: The word of the Lord then came to Jeremiah, saying, 
44:7: “Thus says the Lord: ‘In this way you shall speak to the king of Judah who sent you to seek Me: “Behold, the army of Pharaoh which came up to help you, they shall return to the land of Egypt, 
44:8: and the Chaldeans shall return again to fight against this city. They shall take it, and burn it with fire.” ’ 
44:9: Thus says the Lord: ‘Do not suppose in your souls, saying, “The Chaldeans will surely depart from us,” yet they will not depart. 
44:10: For though you should smite the whole army of the Chaldeans who wage war against you, and they left certain wounded men, these men would rise up, and burn this city with fire.’ ” 
44:11: Then it came to pass, when the army of the Chaldeans left Jerusalem because of the presence of Pharaoh’s army, 
44:12: Jeremiah left Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin to buy goods from among the people. 
44:13: He came to the Gate of Benjamin, and there was a man in that place with whom he lodged, Irijah the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he seized Jeremiah, saying, “You are fleeing to the Chaldeans!” 
44:14: But he said, “That is a lie! I am not fleeing to the Chaldeans.” Yet, he did not listen to him. So Irijah seized Jeremiah, and brought him to the rulers. 
44:15: The rulers were embittered against Jeremiah; and they struck him, and sent him to the house of Jonathan the scribe; for they made this into a prison. 
44:16: So Jeremiah entered the dungeon and the cells, and sat there many days. 
44:17: Then Zedekiah sent, and called for him. The king secretly asked him saying, “Is there a word from the Lord?” He replied, “There is. You shall be delivered into the hands of the king of Babylon.” 
44:18: Then Jeremiah said to the king, “What offense have I committed against you, your servants, or this people, that you have put me in the prison? 
44:19: Where are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, ‘The king of Babylon will not come against the land?’ 
44:20: Now O lord the king, let my supplication come before your face. For why do you return me to the house of Jonathan the scribe? Do not let me die there.” 
44:21: Then the king gave the command, and they cast him into the prison. They gave him one loaf of bread daily from their bakery, until the bread in the city failed. So Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.

