42:1: The word came to Jeremiah from the Lord in the days of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, saying, 
42:2: “Go to the house of the Rechabites; and you shall bring them to the house of the Lord, into one of the courts, and give them wine to drink.” 
42:3: So I brought out Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habazziniah, and his brothers and his sons, and all the house of the Rechabites, 
42:4: and I brought them into the house of the Lord, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man of God, which was near the house of the ruler, who was over the house of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, who kept the court. 
42:5: I set before them a pitcher of wine and cups, and said, “Drink wine.” 
42:6: But they said, “We will drink no wine, for our father, Jonadab the son of Rechab, commanded us, saying, ‘Drink no wine, neither you, nor your sons, forever; 
42:7: nor shall you build a house, nor sow any seed, nor shall you have a vineyard; for you shall dwell in tents all your days, so you may live many days in the land where you are sojourners.’ 
42:8: So we obeyed the voice of Jonadab our father, so as to drink no wine all our days, we and our wives, and our sons and daughters, 
42:9: and so as to build no houses to dwell in. Thus, we have no vineyard, field or seed, 
42:10: for we dwell in tents; because we obeyed everything Jonadab our father commanded us. 
42:11: Then it came to pass, when Nebuchadnezzar came up against the land, we said, ‘Let us go and enter Jerusalem because of the presence of the army of the Chaldeans and the army of the Assyrians.’ So we dwelt there.” 
42:12: Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
42:13: “Thus says the Lord: ‘Go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem: “Will you not receive correction to obey My words? 
42:14: The sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab kept the word he commanded his children, so as to drink no wine, and they did not drink it. But I spoke to you early. I spoke, but you did not obey. 
42:15: I also sent to you My servants the prophets, saying: ‘Let each of you turn from his evil way, and amend your doings. Do not go after other gods to serve them, and you will dwell in the land I gave you and your fathers.’ But you did not incline your ear, nor did you obey. 
42:16: Yet the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab kept the commandment of their father, but this people did not obey Me.” ’ 
42:17: Therefore, thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I will bring on Judah and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, all the evils I pronounced against them.’ 
42:18: “Therefore, thus says the Lord: ‘Since the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab obeyed the commandment of their father, to do as their father commanded them, 
42:19: there shall never be wanting a man of the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab to stand before My face while the earth remains.’ ”

