41:1: The word came to Jeremiah from the Lord, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army, and every land of his dominion, warred against Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah, saying, 
41:2: “Thus says the Lord: ‘Go to Zedekiah king of Judah, and you shall tell him “Thus says the Lord: ‘This city shall certainly be delivered into the hands of the king of Babylon; and he shall take it, and burn it with fire. 
41:3: You shall not escape from his hand, but shall certainly be taken, and delivered into his hands. Your eyes shall see his eyes, and you will speak with him face to face. You shall enter Babylon.’ ” ’ 
41:4: But hear the word of the Lord, O Zedekiah king of Judah. Thus says the Lord: 
41:5: ‘You shall die in peace, and as they wept for your fathers who reigned before you, they shall also weep for you, saying, “Alas, lord!” They shall mourn for you, for I spoke the word,’ says the Lord.” 
41:6: So Jeremiah spoke all these words to King Zedekiah in Jerusalem. 
41:7: Then the army of the king of Babylon waged war against Jerusalem and against the cities of Judah, and against Lachish and Azekah, for these strong cities were left among the cities of Judah. 
41:8: The word came from the Lord to Jeremiah, after King Zedekiah concluded a covenant with all the people, to proclaim a remission: 
41:9: that every man should set his servant free—each male and female servant of his, the Hebrew man and the Hebrew woman—that no man of Judah should be a servant. 
41:10: Then all the princes and all the people, who entered into the covenant to set free each male and female servant of his, 
41:11: again forced them to be male and female servants. 
41:12: Therefore the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying, 
41:13: “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘I made a covenant with your fathers in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, saying, 
41:14: “When six years are complete, you shall set free your Hebrew brother who will be sold to you, for he shall serve you six years, then you will send him forth a free man.” But they did not listen to Me, nor inclined their ear. 
41:15: Even today, they turned to do what is right in My sight, to proclaim remission to each neighbor of his. So they concluded a covenant before Me, in the house called by My name. 
41:16: But you turned away, and profaned My name, to bring back each male and female servant of his, whom you set free in their soul, to be once again your male and female servants.’ 
41:17: “Therefore thus says the Lord: ‘You did not listen to Me, to proclaim remission to each neighbor of his. Behold, I proclaim a remission to you for the sword, and for death and famine. I will deliver you as a dispersion among all the kingdoms of the land. 
41:18: I will deliver the men who transgressed My covenant, who did not keep My covenant they made before Me, with the young bull they offered as a sacrifice: 
41:19: the rulers of Judah and the mighty men, and the priests and the people, 
41:20: I will deliver them to their enemies, and their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth. 
41:21: I will deliver Zedekiah the king of Judah, and their rulers, into the hands of their enemies, and the army of the king of Babylon shall chase those who run away from them. 
41:22: Behold, I shall command them,’ says the Lord, ‘and I will turn them to this land, and they will fight against it. They shall take it, and burn it with fire, even the cities of Judah, which I will cause to be desolate and without inhabitant.’ ”

