26:1: Concerning Egypt, against the army of Pharaoh Necho, king of Egypt Who was by the River Euphrates in Carchemish and whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, king of Judah. 
26:2: “Take up weapons and shields, and draw near for war. 
26:3: Saddle the horses and mount up, you horsemen. Stand ready with your helmets, advance the spears, and put on your breastplates. 
26:4: Why are they terrified, and turn back? Because their mighty ones, surrounded on all sides, will be struck as they flee in panic, and not live,” says the Lord. 
26:5: “Let not the swift flee. Let not the mighty man escape to the north. The forces alongside the Euphrates grow weak and fall. 
26:6: Who is this that shall come up like a river, and like rivers flood their waters? 
26:7: The waters of Egypt will come up like a river, for he said, ‘I will go up and cover the earth, and will destroy its inhabitants.’ 
26:8: Mount the horses, and prepare the chariots. Come forth, you warriors of Ethiopia, and you of Libya armed with weapons, and you Lydians, arise and bend the bow. 
26:9: That shall be the day of the Lord our God, the day of vengeance, to avenge His enemies. The sword of the Lord shall devour, and be fully satisfied, drunken with their blood; for the Lord of Hosts has a sacrifice from the land of the north at the Euphrates. 
26:10: Go up, Gilead, and take balm for the virgin daughter of Egypt. In vain you multiply your medicines, but they are of no benefit to you. 
26:11: The nations heard your voice, and the land is filled with your cry; for warrior to warrior grows weak, and both fall together.” 
26:12: What the Lord spoke by the hand of Jeremiah concerning the coming of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon to strike the land of Egypt. 
26:13: “Declare in Migdol and proclaim in Memphis, and say, ‘Stand up and prepare yourselves, for the sword devours your bow.’ 
26:14: Why did Apis flee from you? Your chosen calf did not remain, because the Lord utterly weakened him. 
26:15: Your multitude grew weak and fell. Each said to his neighbor, ‘Let us arise, and return to our people, and to the land of our nativity, from the presence of the Greek sword.’ 
26:16: They cried there, ‘Pharaoh is but a noise. He has passed by the appointed time.’ 
26:17: As I live,” says the Lord God, “Tabor is among the mountains and Carmel is by the sea, he shall come. 
26:18: O daughter of Egypt, who dwell at home, prepare for yourself goods for captivity, for Memphis shall be for destruction, and be called, ‘Woe!’ because no one will dwell in it. 
26:19: “Egypt is a heifer made beautiful; a rage from the north comes against her. 
26:20: Her mercenaries in her midst are as fatted calves, well fed by her, because with one accord they also turned and fled. They did not stand, for the day of destruction and the time of their retribution came upon them. 
26:21: Their voice is like that of a hissing serpent, for they will proceed upon the sand. They shall come against her with axes, as if cutting wood. 
26:22: They shall cut down her oak groves,” says the Lord God, “for their number cannot at all be conjectured, since they abound more than locust trees. 
26:23: “The daughter of Egypt is put to shame. She is delivered into the hands of people from the north. 
26:24: Behold, I will avenge Ammon her son against Pharaoh, and those who trust in him. 
26:25: But do not fear, My servant Jacob, neither be terrified, O Israel; for behold, I will save you from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return, and be at ease, and sleep; for there will be no one to trouble him. 
26:26: Do not fear, O Jacob, My servant,” says the Lord, “for I am with you. I will bring an end to every nation where I drove you, but I will not cause you to cease. However, I will chasten you in the way of judgment, and not leave you wholly unpunished.”

