33:1: In the beginning of the reign of King Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, this word came from the Lord. 
33:2: Thus says the Lord: “Stand in the court of the house of the Lord, and you shall declare to all Judeans, and all who come to worship in the house of the Lord, all the words I command you to reveal to them. Do not omit a word. 
33:3: Perhaps each will hear, and turn away from his evil ways. Then I will cease from the calamities I consider doing to them because of their evil practices. 
33:4: You shall say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “If you will not hear Me, to walk in My laws I set before you, 
33:5: to heed the words of My servants the prophets, whom I send to you early in the morning, yes, I sent them, but you did not heed Me, 
33:6: then I will make this house like Shiloh, and the city into a curse to all the nations of all the earth.” ’ ” 
33:7: So the priests, the false prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the Lord. 
33:8: Then it came to pass, when Jeremiah finished speaking to all the people the things the Lord commanded him, the priests, the false prophets and all the people seized him, saying, “You will surely die, 
33:9: for you prophesied in the name of the Lord, saying: ‘This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate of inhabitants.’ ” So all the people summoned an assembly against Jeremiah in the house of the Lord. 
33:10: The rulers of Judah also heard this word. So they went up from the house of the king to the house of the Lord, and sat in the entrance of the new gate of the Lord. 
33:11: Then the priests and the false prophets said to the rulers and all the people, “The judgment of death is due this man, because he prophesied against this city, as you heard with your ears.” 
33:12: Then Jeremiah replied to the rulers and all the people, saying, “The Lord sent me to prophesy against this house and this city, all the words you heard. 
33:13: Now then, amend your ways and your works. Hear the voice of the Lord, and the Lord will cease from the calamities He spoke against you. 
33:14: Behold, I am in your hand. Do with me as seems useful and best for you. 
33:15: But know for certain, if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves, on this city, and on those living there. For in truth, the Lord sent me to you, to speak all these words in your ears.” 
33:16: Then the rulers and all the people said to the priests and the false prophets, “The judgment of death is not due this man, for he spoke to us in the name of the Lord our God.” 
33:17: After this, men from the elders of the land rose up, and spoke to all the assembly of the people: 
33:18: “Micah the Morasthite lived in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and said to all the people of Judah, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Zion shall be plowed like a field, Jerusalem shall be impassable, and the mountain of the house shall be a thicket of trees.” ’ 
33:19: Now did Hezekiah and all Judah by any means put him to death? Instead, did they not fear the Lord, and make supplication before the Lord; and the Lord ceased from the calamities He spoke against them? But we have done great evils against our souls.” 
33:20: After this, there was a man who prophesied in the Lord’s name, Urijah the son of Shemaiah of Kirjath-jearim, and he prophesied concerning this land, according to all the words of Jeremiah. 
33:21: Jehoiakim the king, with all the rulers, heard all his words, and they sought to put him to death; but Urijah heard this, and went to Egypt. 
33:22: So the king sent men to Egypt, 
33:23: and they brought him from there to the king. Then he killed him with the sword, and cast him into the grave of the children of his people. 
33:24: Nevertheless the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, to prevent his being delivered into the hands of the people to be put to death.

