4:1: “If Israel returns to Me,” says the Lord, “he shall return. If he puts away abominations from his mouth, and fears My presence, 
4:2: and swears that the Lord lives with truth, judgment, and righteousness, then the Gentiles shall bless in Him, and in Him they shall praise God in Jerusalem.” 
4:3: For thus says the Lord to the men of Judah and those dwelling in Jerusalem: “Plow for yourselves the untilled fields, and do not sow among thorns. 
4:4: Circumcise yourselves to God, all you men of Judah and those dwelling in Jerusalem, and circumcise the hardness of your heart, lest My anger come forth like fire and burn; and there shall be no one who quenches it because of the presence of your evil practices.” 
4:5: Declare in Judah and let it be heard in Jerusalem, and say: “Blow the trumpet in the land, and cry out loudly, saying, ‘Assemble yourselves, and let us go into the fortified cities.’ 
4:6: Pick up and flee toward Zion. Hurry. Do not stop! For I bring disaster from the north and great destruction.” 
4:7: The lion has come up from his den, and the destroyer of nations has arisen. He has come forth from his place to make the land desolate, and the cities will be laid waste, no longer livable. 
4:8: For this, clothe yourself with sackcloth, lament and wail, saying, “The anger of the Lord has not turned back from us” ’ 
4:9: “In that day, it shall come to pass,” says the Lord, “that the heart of the king and the heart of the rulers shall perish. The priests shall be amazed and the prophets shall wonder.” 
4:10: Then I said, “O Lord and Master, surely You deceived this people and Jerusalem, when You said, ‘You shall have peace,’ but behold, the sword reaches to their soul.” 
4:11: At that time, they will say to this people and to Jerusalem, “There is a spirit of wandering in the desert, for the way of the daughter of My people is not clean nor holy. 
4:12: A spirit of completion will come to Me now, for I speak judgments against them. 
4:13: Behold, he shall come up like a cloud, and his chariots like a whirlwind, for his horses are swifter than eagles. They will say, ‘Woe to us for we are in ruin!’ ” 
4:14: O Jerusalem, wash the vices from your heart, that you may be saved. How long shall your painful thoughts be within you? 
4:15: For the voice of one declaring from Dan will come, and anguish will be heard from Mount Ephraim: 
4:16: “Remind the nations, for they have come. Announce to those in Jerusalem the gatherings of those from afar, for they uttered their voice against the cities of Judah. 
4:17: They completely surrounded her, like those who guard a field, for you rejected Me,” says the Lord. 
4:18: “Your ways and practices have brought these things upon you. This evil is your own, for it is bitter, because it took hold of your heart.” 
4:19: I am pained to the depth of my belly and in the senses of my heart. My soul is in great commotion, and my heart is torn asunder. I will not be silent, for my soul hears the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war. 
4:20: It calls for a ruinous crushing, for the whole land is in ruin. Suddenly the tabernacle is in ruin, and my coverings are torn apart. 
4:21: How long will I see people fleeing, and hear the sound of trumpets? 
4:22: “For the leaders of My people do not know Me. They are foolish and unwise sons. They are wise to do evil, but do not know how to do good.” 
4:23: I looked upon the earth, and behold, it was nothing, and into the sky, and there were no stars in it. 
4:24: I saw the mountains, and they were trembling; and I saw all the hills, and they were shaking. 
4:25: I looked, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the heavens were alarmed. 
4:26: I saw and behold, Carmel was deserted, and all the cities were burnt with fire at the presence of the Lord, and because of His fierce anger they were destroyed. 
4:27: Thus says the Lord: “The whole land shall be desolate, yet I will not destroy it completely. 
4:28: Let the earth mourn for these things, and let the sky above grow dark, for I have spoken, and will not repent. I have sworn, and will not turn back from it. 
4:29: From the sound of the horse and the bow, strung with an arrow, the whole land retreated. They crawled into caves, hid in the groves, and climbed up on the rocks. Every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells in them. 
4:30: As for you, what will you do, though you clothe yourself with crimson, and adorn yourself with ornaments of gold, though you daub your eyes with myrrh? Your adornment is in vain. Your lovers rejected you, and they seek your life. 
4:31: For I heard your voice groaning, like the sound of a woman giving birth, like the voice of the daughter of Zion whose anguish is like she who gives birth the first time, who grows weary and whose hands lose their strength; and she says: Woe is me, for my soul faints because of those killed!’

