35:1: Now it came to pass in the fourth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fifth month, Hananiah, the false prophet from Gibeon, and the son of Azur, spoke to me in the house of the Lord in the presence of the priests and all the people, saying, 
35:2: “Thus says the Lord: ‘I broke into pieces the yoke of the king of Babylon. 
35:3: Yet two full years, and I will return the vessels of the Lord’s house to this place, 
35:4: along with Jeconiah and all the captives of Judah, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.’ ” 
35:5: Then Jeremiah spoke to Hananiah in the presence of all the people, and in the presence of the priests who stood in the house of the Lord. 
35:6: Thus Jeremiah said, “Truly, may the Lord do so indeed, and establish the word you prophesy, to return the vessels of the Lord’s house, and all those carried away captive from Babylon, to this place. 
35:7: Nevertheless, hear the word of the Lord I speak in your ears and the ears of all the people. 
35:8: The prophets who were before me and before you of old, they prophesied concerning war against many countries and great kingdoms. 
35:9: As for this prophet who prophesied regarding peace to come, when his word comes to pass, they shall know the prophet the Lord sent to them in good faith.” 
35:10: Then in the sight of all the people, Hananiah took the yokes from the neck of Jeremiah, and broke them to pieces. 
35:11: Hananiah then spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Thus I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon from the necks of all nations.’ ” After this, Jeremiah went his way. 
35:12: Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, after Hananiah broke the yokes from his neck, saying, 
35:13: “Go and tell Hananiah, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord: “You have broken the yokes of wood, but I will make yokes of iron in their place.” 
35:14: For thus says the Lord: “I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all the nations, so they may serve the king of Babylon.” ’ ” 
35:15: Jeremiah also said to Hananiah, “The Lord has not sent you, but you have caused this people to be persuaded wrongfully. 
35:16: Therefore thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I will cast you from the face of the earth, and you shall die this year.’ ” 
35:17: So he died in the seventh month.

