25:1: In the fourth year of Jehoiakim king of Judah, the son of Josiah, the word came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, 
25:2: which he spoke to all the people of Judah and all inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying: 
25:3: “In the thirteenth year of Josiah king of Judah, the son of Amos, even to this day, in the twenty-third year, I spoke to you early in the morning, saying, 
25:4: ‘I sent My servants the prophets to you, sending them early in the morning, (but you did not listen, nor did you incline your ear to hear), saying, 
25:5: “Let each of you turn away from his evil way and evil practices, and dwell in the land I gave to you and your fathers from ages past and forever. 
25:6: Do not go after foreign gods to serve and worship them, so you may not provoke Me with the works of your hands, to harm you. 
25:7: Yet you have not listened to Me.” ’ ” 
25:8: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Because you have not believed My words, 
25:9: behold, I shall even send a family from the north, and lead them against this land, and against those living in it and against all the nations round about her. I will make it desolate, and give it up to destruction. I will render it a hissing and a perpetual disgrace. 
25:10: I will destroy from them the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, and the fragrance of ointment and the light of the lamp. 
25:11: All the land shall be for desolation, and for seventy years they shall serve among the Gentiles. 
25:12: When the seventy years are fulfilled, I will take vengeance on that nation, and I will appoint them for perpetual destruction. 
25:13: I will bring upon that land all My words I pronounced against it, and all things written in this book.” 
25:14: What Jeremiah prophesied against the Nations of Elam. 
25:15: Thus says the Lord: “Let the bow of Elam, the beginning of their power, be broken. 
25:16: For I shall bring against Elam the four winds from the four extremities of heaven, and I will scatter them by all these winds. There will not be a nation that will not come there to drive out Elam. 
25:17: I will terrify them before the enemies who seek their life. I will bring calamities upon them according to the wrath of My anger, and send My sword after them, until I have utterly destroyed them. 
25:18: Then I will set My throne in Elam, and from there send forth the king and his nobles. 
25:19: It shall come to pass in the last days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam,” says the Lord. 
25:20: This word concerning Elam came in the beginning of King Zedekiah’s reign.

