37:1: The word came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying, 
37:2: “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘Write in a book all the words I have spoken to you. For behold, the days will come,’ says the Lord, ‘when I will return the captives of My people Israel and Judah,’ says the Lord, ‘and I shall return them to the land I gave to their fathers, and they shall have dominion over it.’ ” 
37:4: Now these are the words the Lord spoke concerning Israel and Judah, saying, 
37:5: “Thus says the Lord: ‘You shall hear a sound of fear. There is fear, and there is not peace. 
37:6: Ask and see if a male gives birth, and ask concerning fear, in which they shall hold fast their loins, and look for safety; for I see every man, and his hands are on his loins. Their faces have turned to paleness. 
37:7: For that day is great, and there is no other like it. There is little time for Jacob, and because of this, he will be saved. 
37:8: In that day,’ says the Lord, ‘I will break the yoke from their neck, and break their chains; and they shall no longer work for foreigners. 
37:9: But they shall work for the Lord their God, and I will raise up for them David their king.’ 
37:10: “Thus says the Lord: ‘I brought about your destruction. Your blow was painful. 
37:11: There was no one to judge your cause. You were painfully treated for healing, but this was no benefit to you. 
37:12: All your friends forgot you. They do not ask about you, for I struck you with the blow of your enemy, even firm correction. Your sins have multiplied because of all your wrongdoing. 
37:13: Therefore, all who devour you shall be consumed, for all your enemies shall devour themselves. Your sins multiplied because of the abundance of your wrongdoings, thus they did these things to you. But those who tore you to pieces shall be as prey, and I will give all who plundered you as plunder. 
37:14: For I will bring about your healing from a painful wound. I will heal you,’ says the Lord. ‘For you were called Dispersed, for they said, “She is your prey, because no one seeks her.’ ” 
37:15: “Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I will turn back the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon his captives. The city shall be built upon her summit, and the temple shall remain according to His judgment. 
37:16: Singers shall go forth from them. I will multiply them, and they shall not be diminished. 
37:17: Their children shall enter as before, and their testimonies shall be established before Me. I will visit those who afflict them. 
37:18: His mighty ones shall be over them, and his ruler shall go forth of himself, and I will gather them. They shall return to Me, for who is this who sets his heart to return to Me?’ says the Lord. 
37:19: ‘For the wrath of the Lord goes out; a whirlwind of anger goes forth. It shall come against the ungodly. 
37:20: The fierce wrath of the Lord will not turn away until He executes it, and until He establishes the undertaking of His heart. In the last days, you will come to know these things.’ ”

