12:1: O Lord, You are righteous, that I may plead my case with You, to speak to You concerning judgments. Why does the way of the ungodly prosper, and all who deal treacherously flourish? 
12:2: You planted them, and they took root. They bear children, and are fruitful. You are near in their mouth, but far from their mind. 
12:3: But You, O Lord, know me. You have proven my heart before You. Set them apart for the day of slaughter. 
12:4: How long will the land mourn, and the grass of the field wither, because of the vices of those who dwell in it? The cattle and the birds are destroyed, because they said, “God will not see our ways.” 
12:5: “Your feet run, and grow weary. How then will you prepare yourself to run with horses? You are confident when the land is peaceful, but what will you do when the Jordan floods the land? 
12:6: But even your brothers and the house of your father dealt treacherously with you. They cried out, and gathered together in pursuit of you. Do not trust them, because they will speak fair words to you. 
12:7: “I forsook My house, and left My inheritance. I gave My beloved inheritance into the hands of its enemies. 
12:8: For My inheritance became to Me like a lion in the forest. It raised its voice against Me; therefore, I hated it. 
12:9: Is not My inheritance the cave of a hyena to Me, or a cave it walks around? Gather together all the wild beasts of the field, and let them come to devour her. 
12:10: Many shepherds destroyed My vineyard, and defiled My portion. They turned My pleasant portion into an impassable desert. It was made a complete ruin. The whole land was utterly destroyed for My sake, because there was no man who took it to heart. 
12:12: The tormentors come to every passage in the desert, because the sword of the Lord will devour from one end of the land to the other. No flesh has any peace. 
12:13: Sow fires, and reap thorns. Their portions will not profit them. Be ashamed of your boasting because of your disgrace before the Lord.” 
12:14: For thus says the Lord: “Concerning all the evil neighbors who touch My inheritance, which I divided to My people Israel—behold, I shall draw them away from their land, and will cast out Judah from their midst. 
12:15: Then it shall come to pass, after I cast them out, that I will return them, and have mercy on them. I will settle them, each in his inheritance and each in his land. 
12:16: It shall be, that if they carefully learn the way of My people, to swear by My name, saying, ‘The Lord lives,’ as they taught My people to swear by Baal, so they shall be built as a nation in the midst of My people. 
12:17: But if they do not return, I will remove that nation by destruction and ruin.”

