40:1: The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah a second time when he was yet bound in the court of the prison, saying, 
40:2: “Thus says the Lord, He who made the earth, and formed it, to establish it—the Lord is His name: 
40:3: ‘Cry out to Me, and I will answer you. I will proclaim to you great and mighty things, which you do not know.’ 
40:4: “For thus says the Lord God of Israel concerning the houses of this city, and the houses of the king of Judah, which were pulled down, and made into entrenchments and outer fortifications, 
40:5: to fight against the Chaldeans, and to fill the city with dead men, whom I struck in My wrath and anger, and I turned away My face from them because of all their evils: 
40:6: ‘Behold, I bring her health and healing for her wounds, and I will show them how to obey. Yes, I will heal this city, and bring about peace and faithfulness. 
40:7: I shall return the captives of Judah and Israel, and will restore them, even as before. 
40:8: I will cleanse them from all their wrongdoings, by which they sinned against Me. I will not remember their sins, by which they sinned against Me, and withdrew from Me. 
40:9: This shall be for the gladness, praise and majesty of all the people of the earth, who shall hear all the good things I will do. They shall fear and be provoked concerning all the good things, and the peace I shall bring upon them.’ 
40:10: “Thus says the Lord: ‘There shall yet be heard in this place, in which you say, “It is destitute of people and cattle,” in the cities of Judah and outside of Jerusalem, in the places made desolate, without man and cattle, 
40:11: the voice of gladness and joyfulness, the voice of the bridegroom and the bride, the voice of those saying, “Give thanks to the Lord Almighty, for the Lord is good, for His mercy endures forever.” They will bring gifts into the house of the Lord, for I shall bring back all the captives of that land, as it was before,’ says the Lord. 
40:12: “Thus says the Lord of hosts: ‘There shall yet be in this place of desolation, without man and cattle, and in all its cities, resting places for the shepherds to bed down their sheep. 
40:13: In the cities of the hill country and the valley, and in the cities of the South and the land of Benjamin, and in the cities around Jerusalem and Judah, sheep shall again pass under the hand of him who counts them,’ says the Lord.”

