14:1: The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah concerning the drought, saying, 
14:2: “Judah mourns, and her gates are empty. They are darkened in the land, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up. 
14:3: Her nobles sent their young ones for water, but they found no water in the wells. So they returned with their water containers empty. 
14:4: The works of the land failed, for there was no rain. The farmers were ashamed, and covered their heads. 
14:5: The deer also gave birth in the field, but left, because there was no grass. 
14:6: The wild donkeys stood in the wooded glens, and sniffed the wind. Their eyes failed, for there was no grass because of the wrongdoing of the people.” 
14:7: Our sins rise up against us, O Lord. Do to us for Your sake, because our sins are many before You; for we sinned against You. 
14:8: O Lord, the steadfast endurance of Israel, You deliver us in the time of evils. Why have You become as a sojourner in the land, and like a native of the land who turns elsewhere to lodge? 
14:9: Will You be like a man who sleeps, or as a man who is unable to save? But You are in our midst, O Lord, and we are called by Your name. Do not forget us. 
14:10: Thus says the Lord to this people: “They love to wander, and have not refrained from it; therefore, God is not pleased with them. Now He will remember their wrongdoings.” 
14:11: Again the Lord said to me, “Do not pray about this people for their good. 
14:12: When they fast, I will not hear their petition, and when they present whole burnt offerings and sacrifices, I will not take pleasure in them. For I will consume them by the sword, by the famine, and by death.” 
14:13: Then I said, “O Lord, behold their prophets prophesying, and say, ‘You shall not see the sword, nor shall there be famine among you; for I will give you truth and peace in the land, and in this place.’ ” 
14:14: Then the Lord said to me, “The prophets prophesy lies in My name. I have not sent them, nor commanded them; nor have I spoken to them. Because of false visions, divinations, prophesying by the way of birds, and by the purposes of their hearts, they prophesy to you. 
14:15: Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the prophets who prophesy lies in My name: ‘I did not send them.’ They say, ‘Sword and famine shall not be upon this land.’ They shall die in the deathbed of sickness, for the prophets shall die in famine. 
14:16: The people to whom they prophesy shall be cast into the thoroughfares of Jerusalem because of the edge of the sword and famine. There shall be no one to bury them, for even their wives, sons, and daughters shall so die. I will pour out their evils upon them. 
14:17: “So you shall speak this word to them: ‘Let your eyes flow with tears night and day. Let them not cease; for in ruin, the daughter of My people was crushed to pieces, and her wound was very painful. 
14:18: If I go out into the plain, then behold, there are the soldiers wounded by the sword. If I enter into the city, then behold, there is the pain of famine, for priest and prophet have traveled to a land they do not know.’ ” 
14:19: Have You utterly rejected Judah? Has Your soul departed from Zion? Why did You strike us, and there is no healing for us? We waited for peace, but there was no good thing; for a time of healing, but behold, there was trouble. 
14:20: We know, O Lord, our sins and the wrongdoings of our fathers, for we sinned against You. 
14:21: Stop for Your name’s sake. Do not destroy the throne of Your glory. Remember, and do not break Your covenant with us. 
14:22: Is there anyone among the idols of the Gentiles able to cause rain? Or will the sky yield its fullness at their request? Are You not He? Therefore, since You made all these things, we will wait for You.

