18:1: The word that came from the Lord to Jeremiah, saying, 
18:2: “Arise and go down to the potter’s house. There you shall hear My words.” 
18:3: Then I went down to the potter’s house and behold, he was forming something of wet clay upon the stones. 
18:4: The vessel he formed in his hands failed. So he again made himself another vessel, as it pleased him to do. 
18:5: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
18:6: “Surely as this potter, am I not able to form you, O house of Israel? Behold, you are as the clay of the potter in My hands. 
18:7: I shall declare a decree concerning a nation or a kingdom, to remove and destroy them. 
18:8: But if this nation turns away from all their evils, then I will repent concerning the calamities I considered to do to them. 
18:9: If I shall declare a decree concerning a nation or a kingdom, to rebuild and to plant it, 
18:10: but they do evils in My sight, so as not to hear My voice, then I will repent concerning the good I spoke to do for them. 
18:11: “Therefore now, speak to the men of Judah and those inhabiting Jerusalem for Me, saying, ‘Behold, I form calamities, and devise a plan against you. Therefore, let each turn away from his way of evil, and do good in your practices.’ ” 
18:12: But they said, “We will act like men, and walk after our inclinations, and each one of us will do the evils pleasing to his heart.” 
18:13: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Ask now of the Gentiles, ‘Who has heard of such exceedingly horrible things as what the virgin of Israel did?’ 
18:14: Will nourishing streams of water not flow from rocks or snow from Lebanon? Will water turn aside when violently pushed by the wind? 
18:15: For My people have forgotten Me. They offer incense in vain, and are sick in their ways, leaving the ancient ways to embark on impassable paths, 
18:16: so as to appoint their land for destruction and a perpetual hissing. All who pass through it shall be amazed, and shake their head. 
18:17: I will scatter them like a burning wind before the face of their enemies. I will show them the day of their destruction.” 
18:18: Then they said, “Come and let us devise a plan against Jeremiah, for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the intelligent, nor a word from the prophet. Come, and let us strike him down with the tongue, and we will hear all of his words.” 
18:19: O Lord, hear me, and give ear to the voice of my plea for what is right. 
18:20: Surely evil things are repaid for good things; for they spoke words against my soul, and concealed punishment meant for me. But remember, I stood before You to speak good things for them, so as to turn away Your wrath from them. 
18:21: Therefore give their sons to the famine, and gather them to the power of the sword. Let their wives become childless and widowed, and let their men be put to death. In war, let their young men fall by the sword. 
18:22: Let a cry be heard in their houses, for You shall bring robbers upon them suddenly; because they formed a plan to take me, and hid snares against me. 
18:23: O Lord, You know all their counsel against me, so as to put me to death. Do not let their wrongdoings go unpunished, nor blot out their sins from before Your face. Let their weakness come before You, and in the time of Your anger deal with them.

