20:1: Now Pashhur, the son of Immer, the priest who was also appointed governor in the house of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesying these words. 
20:2: He struck him, and cast him into the stockade by the gate of the house, set apart near the house of the Lord. 
20:3: Later Pashhur brought Jeremiah out of the stockade, and Jeremiah said to him, “The Lord does not call your name Pashhur, but Emigrant. 
20:4: “For thus says the Lord, ‘Behold, I will give you, and all your friends, as an emigrant in a foreign land. They shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall see it. I will give you and all Judah into the hands of the king of Babylon. They shall deport them as immigrants, and cut them with their swords. 
20:5: For I shall give all the strength of this city, all its labors and its treasures of the kings of Judah, into the hands of its enemies. They will carry them to Babylon. 
20:6: You, and all who dwell in your house, shall go in captivity to Babylon. There you shall die, and be buried—you and all your friends, to whom you prophesied lies.’ ” 
20:7: O Lord, you deceived me, and I was deceived. You seized me, and prevailed. I am a laughingstock, for every day I am mocked continually. 
20:8: Since I laugh with my bitter word, I will call upon faithlessness and misery, for the word of the Lord has become a disgrace to me and a joke each of my days. 
20:9: Then I said, “I will not name the name of the Lord, nor speak anymore in His name.” But His word was like a burning fire in my bones. I am weakened on all sides, and no longer able to bear it. 
20:10: For I heard the censure of many, who gathered round, saying, “Let us, and all the men who are his friends, confront and conspire against him. Let us observe his intention, and see if he can be deceived, for we will prevail against him, and be avenged on him.” 
20:11: But the Lord was with me as a mighty warrior. Therefore they persecuted me, but were unable to discern anything they could use against me. They were greatly ashamed, for they did not understand their dishonor, which will never be forgotten. 
20:12: O Lord, you who approve righteous acts, who understand the minds and hearts, may I see Your vengeance upon them, for I revealed my defense before You. 
20:13: Sing to the Lord, sing praises to Him, for He delivers the soul of the poor from the hand of those who are evil. 
20:14: Cursed be the day I was born, the day my mother bore me. Let it not be longed for. 
20:15: Cursed be the man who brought the good news to my father, saying, “A boy has been born to you.” 
20:16: Let that man be as these cities the Lord destroyed in anger, and did not regret it. Let them hear crying in early morning and lamentation at noon, 
20:17: because He did not kill me in the womb of my mother, and because my mother did not become my tomb, and her womb an unending conception. 
20:18: Why is it I came forth from her womb, to look upon hardships and sufferings, and to remain in shame all my days?

