47:1: The word came from the Lord to Jeremiah, after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard released him from Ramah, when he took him in manacles in the midst of the captivity of Judah, those being led into Babylon. 
47:2: The captain of the guard took him and said to him, “The Lord your God pronounced all these calamities upon this place, 
47:3: and the Lord did this, because you did not heed His voice. 
47:4: Behold, I have freed you from the manacles placed on your hands. If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come and I will look after you. 
47:5: But if not, run hard, and return to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon appointed over the land of Judah, and dwell with him among the people in the land of Judah. Go wherever in your eyes it seems best to go.” Then the chief of the guard gave him rations and a gift, and sent him away. 
47:6: So Jeremiah came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, and remained among the people who were left in the land. 
47:7: Now all the leaders of the army in the field, they and their men, heard the king of Babylon appointed Gedaliah to govern over the land, and that he entrusted to him their men and women whom he had not carried away captive to Babylon. 
47:8: Then Ishmael the son of Nethaniah came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, along with Johanan the son of Kareah, Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of Mechati, they and their men. 
47:9: Gedaliah swore an oath to them and their men, saying, “Do not be afraid in the presence of the servants of the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land, and work for the king of Babylon; for it shall be beneficial for you. 
47:10: Behold, I sit in your presence at Mizpah, to stand before the Chaldeans who come against us. Gather together wine and fruit, together with olive oil, and put them in your containers. Dwell in the cities you possess.” 
47:11: Then all the Jews in Moab, and those among the children of Ammon, and those in Edom, and those in all the land, heard the king of Babylon had granted a remnant in Judah, and set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam. 
47:12: So they came to Gedaliah in the land of Judah at Mizpah, and gathered together a great abundance of wine, fruit and olive oil. 
47:13: Then Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the field leaders of the army, came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. 
47:14: They said to him, “Do you indeed know that king Baalis, of the sons of Ammon, has sent Ishmael to slay you?” But Gedaliah did not believe them. 
47:15: Then Johanan spoke secretly to Gedaliah at Mizpah, “Indeed, I shall go and smite Ishmael, but let no one know it, lest he take your life, and all Judah gathered to you be scattered by him, and the remnant in Judah perish.” 
47:16: But Gedaliah said to Johanan, “Do not do this deed, for you speak lies concerning Ishmael.”

