34:1: Thus says the Lord: “Make bonds and wooden yokes, and put them on your neck, 
34:2: and you shall send them to the king of Edom, the king of Moab, the king of the sons of Ammon, the king of Tyre, and the king of Sidon, by the hand of the same messengers who met them in Jerusalem, with Zedekiah king of Judah. 
34:3: You shall instruct them with regard to their masters to speak thus: ‘Thus says the Lord God of Israel to your masters: 
34:4: “I made the earth by My great strength and with My high arm, and I will give it to whomsoever it may seem good in My eyes. 
34:5: I gave the earth to Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, to serve him; and I gave the wild beasts of the field to him, to work for him. 
34:6: But the nation and kingdom, whoever will not put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, I will visit them with the sword and the famine,” says the Lord, “until they come to an end by his hand. 
34:7: So do not give heed to your false prophets, diviners, dreamers, soothsayers, or sorcerers, who say, ‘You shall not work for the king of Babylon.’ 
34:8: For they prophesy lies to you, to remove you far from your land. 
34:9: But the nation that brings its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, to work for him, I shall leave it on its own land; and he shall work it for him, and dwell in it.” ’ ” 
34:10: I also spoke to Zedekiah king of Judah according to all these words, saying, “The Lord says, ‘Place your neck under the yoke, and work for the king of Babylon, for they prophesy wrongdoings to you, but I did not send them. 
34:11: Yet they prophesy wrongfully in My name, that I might destroy you, and you should perish, and these prophets of yours, who wrongfully prophesy lies to you.’ ” 
34:12: Again I spoke to him, to all this people and to the priests, saying, “Thus says the Lord: ‘Do not heed the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, saying: “Behold, the vessels of the Lord’s house will return from Babylon,” for they prophesy wrongfully to you; but I did not send them.’ ” 
34:13: Thus if they are prophets, and the word of the Lord is in them, let them meet me, for thus the Lord said. 
34:14: Now concerning the remainder of the vessels the king of Babylon did not take when he carried away captive Jeconiah from Jerusalem, the Lord says, “They will go to Babylon.”

