32:1: What Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations. 
32:2: Thus says the Lord God of Israel: “Take a cup of the unmixed wine from My hand, and you shall cause all the nations to whom I send you to drink it. 
32:3: They will drink, vomit and be insane because of the presence of the sword I send among them.” 
32:4: So I took the cup from the hand of the Lord, and caused the nations to whom the Lord sent me to drink it: 
32:5: Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, the kings of Judah and its rulers, to put them into desolation; to make them an untrodden place and a hissing; 
32:6: and Pharaoh king of Egypt, his servants, his nobles, and all his people; 
32:7: all the mixed multitude, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod; 
32:8: and Edom, Moab, and the sons of Ammon; 
32:9: and all the kings of Tyre, the kings of Sidon, and the kings in the seas beyond; 
32:10: and Dedan, Teman, and Buz, and everyone who shaves round about his face; 
32:11: and all the mixed multitude who dwell in the desert; 
32:12: and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Persians; 
32:13: and all the kings from the faraway East, each one with his brother; and all the kingdoms on the face of the earth. 
32:14: “You shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord Almighty: “Drink and become drunk, and you shall vomit, fall and not rise because of the presence of the sword I send among you.” ’ 
32:15: It shall come to pass, when they refuse to take the cup from your hand to drink it, you shall say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “You shall surely drink it. 
32:16: For I will begin to afflict the city upon which My name is called, and you will not be guiltless; because I will call a sword upon all who dwell upon the earth.” ’ 
32:17: “You shall prophesy against them these words, and say, ‘The Lord shall speak from on high, to instruct from His sanctuary. He will utter His voice, and declare a word against His place.’ They will answer like men who gather grapes and shout in harvest; 
32:18: and destruction is coming upon those who dwell on earth—to the ends of the earth. For the Lord has a controversy with the nations. He is pleading with all flesh, and the ungodly are given to the sword.” 
32:19: Thus says the Lord: “Behold, evils go from nation to nation, and a great storm proceeds from the ends of the earth. 
32:20: In the day of the Lord, the slain of the Lord shall be from one end of the earth to the other. They shall not be buried, but will be as manure on the face of the earth. 
32:21: Wail loudly, you shepherds, and cry aloud. Strike yourselves, you rams of the sheep, for your days are filled for slaughter; and you shall fall like choice rams. 
32:22: Flight shall vanish from the shepherds, and safety from the rams of the flock. 
32:23: There shall be a voice of outcry from the shepherds, and the loud wailing of sheep and rams shall be heard, for the Lord destroyed their pasture. 
32:24: The remnants of the peace will end because of the fierceness of My wrath. 
32:25: Like a lion, he forsook his lair, for their land became impassable because of the presence of the great sword.”

