51:1: The word came to Jeremiah for all the Jews dwelling in the land of Egypt, and staying in Migdol, and in Tahpanhes, and in the land of Pathros, saying, 
51:2: “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘You saw all the calamities I brought upon Jerusalem and the cities of Judah. Behold, they are desolate without inhabitants because of their evils 
51:3: which they committed to provoke Me, by burning incense to other gods they did not know. 
51:4: Yet early in the morning, I sent you My servants the prophets. I sent them, saying, “Do not this deed of defilement which I hate.” 
51:5: But they did not listen to Me, nor did they incline their ear, to turn from their evils of burning incense to other gods. 
51:6: So My wrath and anger fell upon them, and was kindled in the cities of Judah and outside Jerusalem. They became as a desolation and impassable, as it is this day.’ 
51:7: “So now, thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘Why do you commit great evils against your souls, to cut off your man and woman, and your child and infant, from the midst of Judah? Your evils did not leave one of you as a remnant, 
51:8: because you provoked Me with the works of your hands, by burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, in which you entered to dwell. You cut yourself off, so as to become a curse and a disgrace among all the nations of the earth. 
51:9: Have you forgotten the evils of your fathers, the evils of the kings of Judah, the evils of your rulers, and the evils of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah and outside Jerusalem? 
51:10: They have not ceased, even to this day, nor have they cleaved to My statutes, which I gave in the presence of their fathers.’ 
51:11: “Therefore, thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I set My face against you 
51:12: to destroy all the remnant in Egypt. They shall fall by the sword and by famine; and they shall die, from the least to the greatest. They shall be as a disgrace, a destruction and a curse. 
51:13: I shall visit those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I visited Jerusalem with the sword, famine and death. 
51:14: Of those left in Judah and who dwell in the land of Egypt, there shall not be any of them who shall return to the land of Judah, to which they hope in their hearts to return; but only those who escape shall return.’ ” 
51:15: Then all the men who knew their wives burned incense to other gods, and all the great assembly of women, and all the people who stayed in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah, saying, 
51:16: “As for the word you spoke to us in the name of the Lord, we will not listen to you. 
51:17: For we will certainly do every word which proceeds from our mouth, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink-offerings to her, as we and our fathers, our kings and our princes, have done in the cities of Judah and outside Jerusalem. For we were full of bread; and we were well-off, and saw no calamities. 
51:18: But since we stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven, we are all diminished, and have died by sword and famine. 
51:19: But while we burned incense to the queen of heaven, and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make cakes to her and pour out drink-offerings to her without our husbands?” 
51:20: Then Jeremiah spoke to all the people: the mighty men, the women, and all the people conversing with him, saying, 
51:21: “Did not the Lord remember the incense you burned in the cities of Judah and outside Jerusalem, you and your fathers, your kings and rulers, and the people of the land, and did it not come into His heart? 
51:22: The Lord could no longer bear with your evil deeds, and with the abominations you committed. Thus your land became as a desolation, as impassable and as a curse, as it is this day. 
51:23: Because you burned incense, and sinned against the Lord, and did not heed the voice of the Lord, nor walked in His ordinances, His law and His testimonies; therefore, these calamities came upon you.” 
51:24: Jeremiah also said to the people and to the women, “Hear the word of the Lord. 
51:25: Thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘You wives spoke with your mouth and fulfilled with your hands, saying, “We will surely keep the confessions we made, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings to her.” You certainly stood fast, and performed your confessions.’ 
51:26: Therefore hear the word of the Lord, all Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt: ‘Behold, I swore by My great name,’ says the Lord, ‘that My name shall no more be in the mouth of everyone of Judah, to say, “The Lord and Master lives in all the land of Egypt.” 
51:27: For behold, I have watched over them, to harm them, and not to do them good. For all the men of Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt shall die by sword and famine, until they cease to be. 
51:28: Yet those few in number who escape the sword shall return to the land of Judah. But the remnant of Judah who stayed in the land of Egypt to dwell there shall know whose word will remain steadfast. 
51:29: This shall be a sign for you, that I will visit you for evil.’ 
51:30: Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I will give Hophra king of Egypt into the hands of his enemy, and into the hands of those who seek his life, as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, his enemy, who sought his life.’ ” 
51:31: The word Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah, when he wrote these words in the book from the mouth of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, saying, 
51:32: “Thus the Lord spoke to you, O Baruch: 
51:33: ‘Because you said, “Alas! alas! for the Lord added pain upon pain to me. I laid down in groaning, but found no rest.” ’ 
51:34: Thus you shall say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I pull down those whom I built up, and I pluck up those whom I planted. 
51:35: So will you seek great things for yourself? Do not seek them, for behold, I will bring calamities upon all flesh,” says the Lord. “But I will give you life, as finding a treasure in every place, wherever you go.” ’ ”

