38:1: “At that time,” says the Lord, “I will be as God to the family of Israel, and they shall be as My people.” 
38:2: Thus says the Lord: “I found him alive in the desert with those slain by the sword. Go and do not destroy Israel.” 
38:3: The Lord appeared to him from afar, saying: “I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore, I drew you in compassion. 
38:4: O virgin of Israel, I shall build you, and you will be restored. You shall again take your tambourine, and go forth with the assembly of those who rejoice. 
38:5: Moreover plant a vineyard on the mountains of Samaria. Plant and praise, 
38:6: for it is a day of calling, when those who defend you on the mountains of Ephraim will say, ‘Arise and go up to Zion to the Lord our God.’ ” 
38:7: For thus says the Lord to Jacob: “Rejoice and exult in the Head of the nations. Make a proclamation, and praise Him. Say, ‘The Lord saved His people, the remnant of Israel.’ 
38:8: Behold, I will bring them from the north, and gather them from the ends of the earth to the feast of Passover. You shall beget a great multitude, and they shall return here. 
38:9: They went forth with weeping, but I will gather them with consolation. I will cause them to lodge by the channels of waters in an upright way, and they will not be led astray; for I have become as a Father to Israel, and Ephraim is My firstborn. 
38:10: “Hear the word of the Lord, you nations. Proclaim it to the islands far distant, and say, ‘He who scattered Israel will also gather and protect him, as one who feeds his flock.’ 
38:11: For the Lord redeemed Jacob. He redeemed him from the hand of those stronger than he. 
38:12: They shall come and be glad in the mountain of Zion, and they shall come to the goodness of the Lord; to the land of wheat, wine and fruit, and of cattle and sheep. Their soul shall be like a fruitful tree, and they shall hunger no more. 
38:13: Then shall the virgins rejoice in the assembly of young men, and the old men shall rejoice. I will turn their mourning into joy, and I will make them glad. 
38:14: I will magnify and cheer with wine the soul of these priests, the sons of Levi, and My people shall be satisfied with My good things.” 
38:15: Thus says the Lord: “A voice of lamentation, weeping and mourning was heard in Ramah. Rachel does not wish to cease mourning deeply over her children, because they are no more.” 
38:16: Thus says the Lord: “Let your voice cease from its bitter weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a reward for your works, and they shall return from the land of their enemies. 
38:17: There shall be an abiding home for your children. 
38:18: “I heard the news of Ephraim, lamenting: ‘You chastised me, and I was chastised. Like a calf, I was not taught, but turn me back, and I shall return; for You are the Lord my God. 
38:19: For after my captivity, I repented, and after I knew, I groaned because of the day of shame, and showed You that I bore the reproach of my youth.’ 
38:20: Ephraim is a beloved son, and a child who is a delight to Me; because My words are in him. I will surely remember him; therefore, I hastened to help him. I will surely have mercy upon him, says the Lord. 
38:21: “Rouse yourself, O Zion, and bring about vengeance. Be strong in your heart, and return by the way you went, O virgin of Israel. Return to your cities, and mourn. 
38:22: How long, O dishonored daughter, will you turn away? For the Lord has created safety by a new planting. Men will travel about in security.” 
38:23: Thus says the Lord: “They will say this word in the land of Judah and its cities, when I bring back the host of captives: ‘Blessed is the Lord on His righteous and holy mountain.’ 
38:24: There shall be those who dwell in the cities of Judah and in all its land, together with the farmer, and the shepherd shall go forth with his flock. 
38:25: For I have satiated every thirsty soul, and filled every hungry soul.” 
38:26: Therefore, I awoke and beheld, and my sleep was pleasant to me. 
38:27: “Therefore, behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when I will sow Israel and Judah with the seed of man and the seed of cattle. 
38:28: It shall come to pass, as I watched over them to overthrow and afflict, so too, I will watch over them to build and plant,” says the Lord. 
38:29: In those days, they shall not say: ‘The fathers ate sour grapes, and the children’s teeth were set on edge.’ 
38:30: But rather, each shall die in his own sin, and the teeth of him who eats the sour grapes shall be set on edge. 
38:31: “Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, when I shall make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, 
38:32: not according to the covenant I made with their fathers in the day I took hold of their hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; for they did not abide in My covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord. 
38:33: For this is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will surely put My laws into their mind, and write them on their hearts. I will be as God to them, and they shall be as My people. 
38:34: Each shall not teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for all shall know Me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their wrongdoings, and I will no longer remember their sins.” 
38:35: Though the sky should be raised to a greater height, says the Lord, and though the ground of the earth should be sunk lower beneath, yet I would not reject the family of Israel, says the Lord, for all they have done. 
38:36: Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun as a light by day, and the moon and the stars as a light by night; and who makes the sea roar, so its waves make a crashing sound. The Lord Almighty is His name. 
38:37: “If these laws cease from before Me,” says the Lord, “the family of Israel shall also cease to be a nation before Me forever. 
38:38: “Behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when the city shall be built for the Lord from the Tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate. 
38:39: The measure of the city shall proceed in front of them as far as the hills of Gareb, and it shall be encircled round about by choice stones. 
38:40: All Hasaremoth, as far as the Kidron River, to the corner of the Horse Gate eastward, shall be a sanctuary to the Lord. It shall not fail, or be destroyed anymore forever.”

