52:1: Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
52:2: Then it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem. They surrounded it with a fortress, and encircled it with stones. 
52:3: The city was besieged until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah, 
52:4: on the ninth day of the month. The famine became severe in the city, and there was no bread for the people of the land. 
52:5: Then the city was broken through, and all the men of war went out at night by way of the gate, between the wall and the outwork, next to the garden of the king; for at the time the Chaldeans surrounded the entire city. They went by the road to Arabah. 
52:6: But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king, and overtook him in the country beyond Jericho; and all his servants were scattered from him. 
52:7: They took the king, and brought him to the king of Babylon at Riblah; and he pronounced judgment against him. 
52:8: In Riblah, the king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah, and all the rulers of Judah, before his eyes. 
52:9: He blinded the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in shackles; and the king of Babylon brought him to Babylon, and placed him in the mill house, until he died. 
52:10: Now in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, who served before the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem. 
52:11: He burned the house of the Lord and the king’s house; and all the houses of the city. Every great house he burned with fire. 
52:12: Then the army of the Chaldeans, with the captain of the guard, pulled down every wall round about Jerusalem. 
52:13: But the captain of the guard left the remnant of the people to be vinedressers and farmers. 
52:14: The Chaldeans also broke in pieces the bronze pillars of the house of the Lord, and the pedestals and the bronze Sea in the house of the Lord, and they carried all their bronze to Babylon. 
52:15: The captain of the guard also took away the rim, the bowl, the meat-hooks, and all the brazen vessels in which they ministered, 
52:16: and the basins, the snuffers, the oil-funnels, the candlesticks, the censers, the golden cups, and the silver cups, 
52:17: and two pillars, the one Sea, and the twelve bronzed calves under the Sea, which King Solomon made for the house of the Lord, and the bronze artifacts which were beyond measure. 
52:18: As for the pillars, the height of one pillar was thirty-five cubits, and a line of twelve cubits measured the circumference. It was four fingers in thickness. 
52:19: And a bronze border was upon them and the length was five cubits, the height of one border. Around the capital was a network and pomegranates, all made of bronze. Similarly, the second pillar had eight pomegranates for each of the twelve cubits. 
52:20: There were ninety-six pomegranates on each side, and all the pomegranates, all around on the network, were one hundred. 
52:21: The captain of the guard took the chief priest, the second priest, and the three who kept the door, 
52:22: and one eunuch who was over the men of war, and seven men found in the city who were renowned before the presence of the king, the scribe of the armies who communicated to the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land found in the midst of the city. 
52:23: So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
52:24: Then the king of Babylon put them to death at Riblah, in the land of Hamath. 
52:25: Now it came to pass that in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, Evil-Merodach king of Babylon, in the year which he reigned, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah, and brought him out from the house where he was imprisoned. 
52:26: He spoke kindly to him, and set his throne above the thrones of the kings who were with him in Babylon. 
52:27: He also changed his prison garment, and Jehoiachin ate his food in the presence of the king all the days of his life. 
52:28: His appointed portion was always given to him by the king of Babylon, from day to day until his death.

