50:1: Then it came to pass, as Jeremiah ceased speaking to the people all the words of the Lord, for which the Lord sent him to them, even all these words, 
50:2: that Azariah the son of Mahseiah, Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the men who spoke to Jeremiah said, “That is a lie. The Lord did not send you to us, saying, ‘Do not enter Egypt to dwell there.’ 
50:3: But Baruch the son of Neriah set you against us, that you might deliver us into the hands of the Chaldeans, to kill us or to send us as captives to Babylon.” 
50:4: So Johanan, all the leaders of the army, and all the people, refused to heed the voice of the Lord, to dwell in the land of Judah. 
50:5: Thus Johanan, and all the leaders of the army, took the entire remnant of Judah who returned to dwell in the land: 
50:6: the mighty men, the women and children, the daughters of the king, and the souls Nebuzaradan left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, together with Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch the son of Neriah. 
50:7: They entered Egypt; for they did not heed the voice of the Lord, but entered Tahpanhes. 
50:8: Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying, 
50:9: “Take for yourself large stones, and hide them in the entrance, at the gate to the house of Pharaoh in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah. 
50:10: Then you shall say: ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will send, and bring Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon. He will set his throne upon these stones you hid, and spread his weapons upon them. 
50:11: He shall enter in, and strike the land of Egypt. He shall deliver some for death, and those for captivity to captivity, and those for the sword to the sword. 
50:12: He shall kindle a fire in the houses of their gods, and shall burn them. He will carry them away captive, and search the land of Egypt, as a shepherd searches his garment for lice; then he shall go from there in peace. 
50:13: He shall break into pieces the pillars of the sun in On, and he shall burn their houses with fire.” ’ ”

