13:1: Thus says the Lord: “Go and get yourself a linen sash, and put it around your waist, but let it not pass through the water.” 
13:2: So I got the sash according to the word of the Lord, and put it around my waist. 
13:3: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:4: “Take the sash from around your waist. Arise, and go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole in the rock.” 
13:5: So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the Lord commanded me. 
13:6: Again it came to pass, that after many days the Lord also said to me, “Arise, and go to the Euphrates, and take from there the sash I commanded you to hide there.” 
13:7: Then I went to the Euphrates River, and dug, and took the sash from the place where I buried it. Behold, it was rotted, and good for nothing. 
13:8: Then, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:9: “Thus says the Lord: ‘In this manner I will destroy the insolence of Judah and that of Jerusalem. 
13:10: The great insolence of those who are unwilling to obey My words, and who walk after foreign gods, to serve and worship them, they shall be like this sash—good for nothing. 
13:11: For as a sash clings to the waist of a man, so I caused the house of Israel and the whole house of Judah to cling to Me, so as to become a notable people to Me, as a boast and a glory; but they would not listen to Me.’ 
13:12: “Thus you shall say to this people: ‘Every bottle shall be filled with wine.’ But if they say to you, ‘Do we not know for certain every bottle will be filled with wine?’ 
13:13: Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land with intoxicating drink: their kings, the sons of David who sit on his throne, their priests, their prophets, and Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
13:14: I will scatter them, a man and his brother, together with their fathers and their sons. I will not desire them,” says the Lord, “nor spare them, nor have compassion on them in their destruction.” ’ ” 
13:15: Listen, and give ear. Do not exalt yourselves, for the Lord has spoken. 
13:16: Give glory to the Lord your God before it grows dark, and causes your feet to stumble on the dark mountains. You shall wait in anticipation of the light, but the shadow of death will be there; and they shall bring you into darkness. 
13:17: Now if you will not hear, your soul will weep secretly because of your insolent countenance, and your eyes will bring forth tears, for the Lord’s flock is broken apart. 
13:18: Say to the king and to the nobles, “Humble yourself, and sit down, for your crown of glory is removed from your head.” 
13:19: The cities to the South were shut, and there was no one to open them. Judah is sent away completely as a settlement. 
13:20: Lift up your eyes, O Jerusalem, and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock given to you, the sheep of your glory? 
13:21: What will you say when they visit you? For you taught them lessons in the beginning against yourself. Shall not pains of agony seize you, like a woman who gives birth? 
13:22: But if you say in your heart, “Why have these things happened to me?” Because of the multitude of your wrongdoings, your backside was uncovered, so your heels might be exposed. 
13:23: If an Ethiopian could change his skin, or a leopard its spots, so you who learned evil might also be able to do good. 
13:24: “Therefore I scattered them like sticks, carried by the wind into the desert. 
13:25: This is your lot and your portion for your disobedience against Me,” says the Lord, “because you forgot Me, and trusted in falsehoods. 
13:26: I will uncover your backside to your face, and your dishonor will be seen. 
13:27: For I have seen your adultery and neighing, and the alienation of your fornication; the abomination of your fornication on the hills and in the fields. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! For you were not cleansed, so as to follow Me. How long will it still be?”

