23:1: “Woe to the shepherds who scatter and destroy the sheep of My pasture!” 
23:2: Therefore thus says the Lord against those who tend My people: “You have scattered My sheep, and driven them out. You did not care for them. Behold, I shall punish you according to your evil practices. 
23:3: I will receive the remnant of My people from every land where I have driven them. I will establish them in their pasture, and they shall increase and be multiplied. 
23:4: I will set up shepherds over them who will feed them. They shall fear no more, nor be terrified,” says the Lord. 
23:5: “Behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when I will raise up for David the Righteous Orient, and a King shall reign. He will understand and bring about judgment and righteousness on the earth. 
23:6: In His days, Judah will be saved, and Israel shall dwell in confidence. This is His name by which the Lord will call him: ‘The Lord Our Righteousness.’ ” 
23:7: The Lord says, “Therefore behold, days are coming when they shall no longer say, ‘As the Lord lives who brought up the house of Israel from the land of Egypt,’ 
23:8: but they will say: ‘The Lord lives who gathered all the descendants of Israel from the north country, from all the countries where He drove them, and restored them into their land.’ ” 
23:9: Among the prophets, my heart is broken within me, and all my bones are shaken. I am as a broken down man, overcome with wine, because of the Lord’s presence, and the excellence of His glory. 
23:10: Because of these things, the land mourns and the pastures of the desert are dried up. Their way of life has become evil, and so has their strength. 
23:11: “For both prophet and priest are defiled, and I see their evils within My house,” says the Lord. 
23:12: “Therefore let their way be to them as a fall into darkness; and they shall be tripped up and fall therein, because in the year of their visitation I will bring calamities upon them. 
23:13: In the prophets of Samaria I have seen lawless actions. They prophesy through Baal, and lead astray My people Israel. 
23:14: Also in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen horrible things. They commit adultery and walk in lies. They strengthen the hands of evil men, so they might not turn back each from his evil path. They are to me like Sodom, and her inhabitants like Gomorrah.” 
23:15: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will feed them pain, and give them bitter water to drink; because from the prophets of Jerusalem, defilement goes out into all the land.” 
23:16: Thus says the Lord Almighty: “Do not listen to the words of the prophets, for they invent a futile vision for themselves. They speak from their own heart, and not from the mouth of the Lord. 
23:17: They say to those who reject the word of the Lord, ‘You shall have peace.’ To those who walk according to their own wishes, and to everyone who walks in the error of his heart, they say, ‘No evil shall come upon you.’ 
23:18: For who stands in the camp of the Lord, and sees His word? Who gives ear to His word and hears it? 
23:19: Behold, there is an earthquake from the Lord, and wrath goes forth as an earthquake. It shall come violently on the ungodly. 
23:20: The anger of the Lord shall not turn away until He establishes it, because of the undertaking of His heart. They shall understand this in the last days. 
23:21: I did not send these prophets, but they went forth. I did not speak to them, but they prophesied. 
23:22: If they had stood in My counsel and heard My words, then they would have turned my people away from their evil practices. 
23:23: “I am a God who is near,” says the Lord, “and not a God afar off. 
23:24: Can a man hide in secret, and I not see him? Do I not fill heaven and earth?” says the Lord. 
23:25: “I heard what the prophets said, and what lies they prophesied in My name, saying falsely, ‘I have dreamed a dream.’ 
23:26: How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, when they prophesy the wishes of their heart? 
23:27: They reason by their dreams, so men will forget My law. Each prophet tells his neighbor to forget Me, as their fathers forgot My name in their worship of Baal. 
23:28: The prophet in whom there is a dream, let him tell his dream; and the prophet in whom there is My word, let him tell it truthfully. What is chaff in comparison to wheat? So are My words,” says the Lord. 
23:29: “Are not My words like a blazing fire?” says the Lord. “Are they not like an ax striking a rock? 
23:30: “Behold therefore, I am against the prophets,” says the Lord God, “who steal My words, each prophet from his neighbor. 
23:31: Behold, I am against the prophets who are drowsy and put forth prophecies as mere words. 
23:32: Behold, I am against the prophets who prophesy false dreams, and they relate them. They lead My people astray with their lies, and in their deceits. Yet I did not send them, or command them. Therefore, they shall not profit this people at all.” 
23:33: The Lord says, “So if these people, or a prophet, or a priest, ask you, saying, ‘What is the burden of the Lord?’ you shall then say to them, ‘You are the burden, and I will strike you down.’ 
23:34: As for the prophet and the priest and the people who say, ‘The burden of the Lord,’ then I will take vengeance on that man and his house. 
23:35: Thus each shall say to his neighbor, and each to his brother, ‘What has the Lord answered? What has the Lord spoken?’ 
23:36: Do not mention the burden of the Lord anymore, for the burden on a man shall be his word. 
23:37: ‘But why,’ you say, ‘has the Lord our God spoken?’ 
23:38: Therefore thus says the Lord God: ‘Because you spoke this word: “The burden of the Lord;” therefore, I instructed you, saying, “You shall not say, ‘The burden of the Lord.’ ” 
23:39: ‘Therefore behold, I take and strike you, and the city I gave to you and to your fathers. 
23:40: I will bring everlasting disgrace upon you, and a perpetual dishonor, which shall not be forgotten.’ 
23:41: “Therefore behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when they will no longer say, ‘The Lord lives who brought the house of Israel out of the land of Egypt,’ 
23:42: but, ‘The Lord lives who brought all the seed of Israel from the north, and from all the countries, where He banished them, and restored them to this land.’ ”

