8:1: Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said: 
8:2: “How long will you speak these things, And the breath of your mouth be filled with words? 
8:3: Will the Lord do wrong when He judges? Or will He who made all things trouble righteousness? 
8:4: If your sons sinned against Him, He sent them away because of their lawlessness. 
8:5: But rise early in the morning, And make your supplication to the Lord Almighty. 
8:6: If you are pure and true, He will hear your supplication, And restore to you the dwelling of the righteous. 
8:7: Though your beginning shall be small, Your latter end will be abundantly great. 
8:8: Do inquire about the first generation, And search for the race of our fathers; 
8:9: For we are of yesterday, and know nothing, Because our life on earth is a shadow. 
8:10: Will they not teach you, and proclaim to you, And bring forth words from their heart? 
8:11: “Can the papyrus bloom without water? Or can the reeds flourish without moisture? 
8:12: While it is still on the root and not yet harvested, Does not any vegetation wither before it receives moisture? 
8:13: So shall be the end of all who forget the Lord, For the hope of the ungodly shall perish. 
8:14: For his house shall be without inhabitants, And his tent shall turn out to be a spider’s web. 
8:15: If he props up his house, it will not stand, And when he takes hold of it, it will not endure. 
8:16: For it is moist under the sun, And his branch shall come forth out of his rottenness. 
8:17: He shall lie down upon a pile of rocks, And shall live in the midst of flints. 
8:18: If he is swallowed up, his place shall deny him. You have not seen such things, 
8:19: “That such is the destruction of the ungodly, And out of the earth another will grow up again. 
8:20: For the Lord will not cast off the innocent, Nor will He accept any gift of an ungodly man. 
8:21: He will fill the mouth of the true with laughter, And their lips with thanksgiving. 
8:22: But their enemies will be clothed with shame, And the dwelling of an ungodly man will be no more.”

