7:1: “Is not the life of a man on earth an ordeal? Is not his life also like the life of a hired man working by the day? 
7:2: Or like a servant who fears his master? Or like one who grasps for a shadow? Or like a hired man who eagerly looks for his wages? 
7:3: So I have been enduring months of futility, And agonizing nights have been appointed for me. 
7:4: When I lie down, I say, ‘When will it be day?’ When I arise, I say, ‘When will it be evening?’ I am full of pains from evening to morning. 
7:5: My body is covered with loathsome worms; And I am wasting away, As I scrape off clods of dust from my eruption. 
7:6: “My life is lighter than speech, and perishes with an empty hope. 
7:7: Remember then, my life is a breath, And my eye will no longer return to see good. 
7:8: The eye of him who sees me will not see me again; ur eyes are on me, I am no more. 
7:9: I am like the cloud that cleared away from the sky, For if a man goes down to Hades, he shall not come up again. 
7:10: He shall not return to his own house, Nor shall his place know him anymore. 
7:11: “Now then, neither will I restrain my mouth. I will speak by necessity, Because I will disclose the bitterness of my soul When I am oppressed. 
7:12: Am I a sea, or a serpent, That You set a guard over me? 
7:13: I said, ‘My bed will comfort me, And on my couch I will counsel privately with myself.’ 
7:14: You scare me with dreams and terrify me with visions. 
7:15: You will separate my soul from my spirit, Yet keep my bones from death. 
7:16: For I will not live forever, that I should patiently endure. Let me alone, for my life is vain. 
7:17: “What is man, that You should exalt him? Or that You should set Your heart on him? 
7:18: Or that You should visit him every morning, And judge him till the time of rest? 
7:19: How long will You neither let me alone, Nor let me go until I swallow my saliva in grief? 
7:20: If I have sinned, what can I do to You, O You who understand the heart of men? Why have You set me as Your accuser? Why am I a burden to You? 
7:21: Why then have You not forgotten my lawlessness, And purged my sin? But now I will depart into the earth, And in the morning, I will no longer be here.”

