5:1: “But call out, if there is anyone who will obey you, Or if you shall see any of the holy angels. 
5:2: For wrath destroys a foolish man, And envy slays one who is deceived. 
5:3: I have seen foolish people taking root, But suddenly their mode of life consumed them. 
5:4: May their children be far from salvation, May they be derided at the gates of worse people, And may there be no one to deliver them. 
5:5: For the righteous will eat what they have gathered, But they themselves will not be delivered from calamities. Their strength will be exhausted. 
5:6: For trouble does not come from the earth, Nor does suffering spring from the mountains; 
5:7: Yet man is born for trouble, As the young bird is born to fly to high places. 
5:8: But surely as for me, I will beseech the Lord, And call upon to the Lord and Master of all; 
5:9: Who does great, incomprehensible, And marvelous things without number. 
5:10: He causes rain on the earth, And sends water on all the places under the heaven. 
5:11: He sets the lowly on high, And raises up the lost. 
5:12: He frustrates the councils of the crafty, So their hands cannot carry out their plans. 
5:13: He catches the wise in their craftiness, And subverts the counsel of the cunning. 
5:14: Let them encounter darkness in the daytime, And may they grope at noontime as though it were night. 
5:15: May they perish in war, But may the weak escape from the hand of the mighty. 
5:16: May the weak have hope, And may the mouth of the unrighteous be stopped. 
5:17: “But blessed is the man whom God corrects; Therefore, do not reject the chastening of the Almighty. 
5:18: For He causes a man to be in pain, But He restores him again. He smites, but His hands heal. 
5:19: Six times He shall deliver you out of troubles, And in the seventh time no harm shall touch you. 
5:20: In famine He shall deliver you from death, And in war He shall free you from the power of the sword. 
5:21: He shall hide you from the scourge of the tongue, And you shall not be afraid of evils when they come. 
5:22: You shall laugh at the unrighteous and the lawless, And you shall not be afraid of the wild animals of the earth. 
5:23: For the wild animals of the field shall be at peace with you. 
5:24: Then you shall know your house will be at peace with you; And in your dwelling place, there shall be nothing amiss. 
5:25: You shall also know your seed shall be many, And your children shall be like the grass of the earth. 
5:26: You shall come to the grave, as grain reaped in its season, Or as a heap of threshed wheat harvested at the proper time. 
5:27: Behold, we have searched this out; Yhis is what we have heard. Know for yourself, if you have done anything wrong.”

