42:1: Then Job answered the Lord and said: 
42:2: “I know You can do all things, And nothing is impossible for You. 
42:3: For who is he who hides counsel from You? Who keeps back his words, And thinks to hide them from You? Who will tell me what I knew not, Things too great and wonderful, which I did not know? 
42:4: But hear me, O Lord, that I also may speak. I will ask You, and please teach me. 
42:5: “I have heard of You by the hearing of the ear, But now my eye sees You. 
42:6: Therefore I demean myself, and I waste away. I regard myself as dust and ashes.” 
42:7: So it was, after the Lord had spoken these words to Job, that the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, “You have sinned, you and your two friends, for you have not spoken before Me what is true, as My servant Job has. 
42:8: Now therefore, take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you. For I will only accept him, but for his sake, I would have destroyed you; because you have not spoken what is true regarding my servant Job.” 
42:9: So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the Lord commanded them; and He redeemed their sin for Job’s sake. 
42:10: Then the Lord restored Job’s losses when he prayed for his friends, and He forgave their sin. But the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. 
42:11: Then all his brothers and all his sisters heard about everything that happened to him, and they came to him. So did all who knew him from the first. They ate food and drank with him, and comforted him; and they wondered at all the Lord brought upon him. Each one gave him a young ewe and a tetradrachm of gold and silver. 
42:12: Now the Lord blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning. He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, one thousand yoke of oxen, and one thousand donkeys. 
42:13: He also had seven sons and three daughters. 
42:14: And he named the first, Day, the second, Casia, and the third, Amalthia’s Horn. 
42:15: In all the land, there were found no women so beautiful as the daughters of Job, and their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers. 
42:16: After this affliction, Job lived one hundred and seventy years, and all the years he lived were two hundred forty-eight; and Job saw his children and grandchildren for four generations. 
42:17: So Job died, old and full of days. 
42:18: It is written that he will rise with those whom the Lord resurrects. 
42:19: This man is described in the Syriac book, as living in the land of Ausitis, on the borders of Edom and Arabia. Previously, his name was Jobab. 
42:20: He took an Arabian wife, and begot a son named Ennon. But he himself was the son of his father Zare, one of the sons of Esau, and of his mother, Bosorra. Thus, he was the fifth son from Abraham. 
42:21: Now these were the kings who reigned in Edom, over which country he also ruled. First, there was Balak, the son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dennaba. But after Balak, there was Jobab, who is called Job. After him, there was Asom, who was ruler out of the country of Teman. After him, there was Adad, the son of Barad, who destroyed Midian in the plain of Moab; and the name of his city was Gethaim. 
42:22: Now his friends who came to him were: Eliphaz, of the children of Esau, king of the Temanites, Bildad ruler of the Shuhites, and Zophar king of the Minians.

