6:1: But Job answered and said: 
6:2: “I wish there were someone who would weigh the wrath upon me, And at the same time lift up my griefs on a scale. 
6:3: For indeed they would be heavier than the sand of the seashore; But, as it seems, my words are worthless. 
6:4: For the arrows of the Lord are in my body; Whose anger drinks my blood; For when I begin to speak, they pierce me. 
6:5: What then? Will the wild donkey bray for no reason If he is not seeking food? Or will the ox moo at the manger when it has fodder? 
6:6: Will bread be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in empty words? 
6:7: My soul cannot stop groaning, For I see my food to be like the smell of a lion. 
6:8: “Would that my request would come about, And the Lord would grant my hope. 
6:9: Let the Lord begin and wound me, But let him not utterly destroy me. 
6:10: May the grave be my city; upon the walls which I have leaped. I will not turn away from it, For I have not lied about the holy words of my God. 
6:11: What strength do I have, that I should continue? For how long would my soul endure? 
6:12: Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh made of bronze? 
6:13: Or have I not trusted in Him? But help is far from me. 
6:14: “Mercy has rejected me; And the visitation of the Lord has disregarded me. 
6:15: My relatives pay no attention to me. They pass me by like a wave, Or as though I were a dried up brook. 
6:16: Those who once reverenced me, Now look upon me like snow or frozen ice. 
6:17: For when it melts at the approach of the heat, It is no longer recognized for what it was. 
6:18: Thus I have been forsaken by all, But I am also lost and homeless. 
6:19: Look at the ways of Temanites, You who mark the paths of Sabeans. 
6:20: Those who put their trust in cities and wealth Will be debtors to shame. 
6:21: But you have also come to me without mercy, That seeing my wound you were afraid. 
6:22: What? Have I ever made any demand of you? Or do I need your strength, 
6:23: To deliver me from enemies, Or to rescue me from the hand of the mighty? 
6:24: “Teach me, and I shall be deaf. Tell me wherein I have erred. 
6:25: But as it seems, the words of a true man are worthless, For I do not ask strength of you. 
6:26: Neither will your rebuke cause me to cease my words, Nor will I endure the sound of your word. 
6:27: Nevertheless you attack the orphan, And you jump on your friend. 
6:28: Now therefore, after I looked on your faces, I will not lie. 
6:29: Sit down now, and may there be no wrongdoing; And come together again with a righteous man. 
6:30: There is no wrongdoing on my tongue, Or does not my throat cultivate understanding?

