4:1: Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said: 
4:2: “Have you been often spoken to in distress? But now who shall endure the force of your words? 
4:3: For though you instructed many, And strengthened the hands of the weak one, 
4:4: And raised up the sick with your words, And imparted courage to feeble knees, 
4:5: Yet now pain has come upon you, and touched you; And you are anxious. 
4:6: Is not your fear, your hope, And the integrity of your way of life changed into folly? 
4:7: Can you remember anyone pure who has perished? Or true people who were altogether uprooted? 
4:8: According to what I have seen, Those who plow harmful things, and those who sow them, Will reap pain for themselves. 
4:9: They will perish by the command of the Lord, And they will be destroyed by the breath of His wrath. 
4:10: The strength of the lion, the voice of the lioness, And the exulting cry of dragons are extinguished. 
4:11: The old lion has perished for lack of prey, And the cubs of the lioness have left one another. 
4:12: “But if there had been any truth in your words, None of these evils would have befallen you. Shall not my ear receive extraordinary things from him? 
4:13: But just as when terror falls upon men With dread at a noise in the night, 
4:14: Shivering and trembling befell me, And caused my bones to shake. 
4:15: Then a spirit came before my face; And my hair and flesh shook with fear. 
4:16: I arose, but could not recognize it. I looked and there was no form before my eyes, But rather a gentle breeze, and a voice, saying: 
4:17: ‘What? Shall a mortal man be pure in the Lord’s sight? Or a man blameless on account of his works? 
4:18: If He puts no trust in His servants, And if He observes a perverse way in His angels, 
4:19: How much more those who dwell in houses of clay, Of whom we also are formed of the same clay? Does not He smite them like a moth. 
4:20: They no longer exist from morning till evening; They have perished, for they cannot help themselves. 
4:21: For He blows upon them, and they are withered. They have perished for lack of wisdom.’

