3:1: After this, Job opened his mouth, 
3:2: and cursed his day, saying: 
3:3: “May the day perish on which I was born, And the night in which they said, ‘Behold, a male child.’ 
3:4: May that day be darkness; And may the Lord not regard it from above, Nor may the light come upon it. 
3:5: May darkness and the shadow of death seize it; May a cloud settle on it. 
3:6: May that day and night be cursed; May darkness carry it away; May it not come into the days of the year; May it not be numbered with the days of the month. 
3:7: But may that night be sorrow, And may no gladness come upon it, nor joy. 
3:8: But may he who curses that day curse it, Even he who is about to subdue the great sea-monster. 
3:9: May the stars of that night be darkened, And may it remain dark. May it not come into the light, And may it not see the morning star arise; 
3:10: Because it did not shut up the doors of my mother’s womb, For it would have removed sorrow from my eyes. 
3:11: Why did I not die in the womb? Why did I not perish immediately when I came from the womb? 
3:12: Why did the knees receive me, And why did I nurse the breasts? 
3:13: For now I would have been lying down and quiet; I would have slept and been at rest, 
3:14: With kings and counselors of the earth, Who were insolent with their swords, 
3:15: Or with rulers who had abundant gold, And filled their houses with silver; 
3:16: Or I would have been like an untimely birth Proceeding from his mother’s womb, Or like infants who never saw the light. 
3:17: There the ungodly have burnt out the fury of wrath; There the weary in body are at rest. 
3:18: There men of ancient times have ceased together To hear the voice of those who collect taxes. 
3:19: The small and great are there, And the servant who feared his master. 
3:20: Why is light given to those in bitterness, And life to souls in pain, 
3:21: Who long for death, but do not obtain it, Digging for it like treasures; 
3:22: And would be very joyful, if they could obtain it? 
3:23: Death is a rest to such a man, For God is against him. 
3:24: For groaning comes before my food; And I weep and am oppressed with terror. 
3:25: For the terror I was concerned about came to me, And what I feared happened to me; 
3:26: Neither was I at peace or quiet, nor at rest, For wrath came upon me.”

