24:1: “Why have the seasons escaped the Lord’s notice? 
24:2: “Why have the ungodly stepped over the boundary, Snatching away the flock with the shepherd? 
24:3: They have led away the donkey of the orphans, And have taken the widow’s ox as a pledge. 
24:4: They have turned aside the weak from the right way; The gentle of the land have hidden themselves together. 
24:5: They departed like donkeys in the field. Contrary to me, they went forth to their own pursuits. Their bread was sweet to their little ones. 
24:6: For they harvested a field that was not their own before the time, And the weak worked the vineyard of the ungodly Without pay or food. 
24:7: They caused many naked to sleep without clothing, And they took away the covering of their life. 
24:8: They are wet with the showers of the mountains, And have huddled around the rock for want of shelter. 
24:9: They have snatched the orphan from the breast, And have humiliated the banished. 
24:10: They have unjustly caused them to sleep without clothing; And they have taken away the morsel from the hungry. 
24:11: They have wrongfully laid snares in narrow places, And have not known the way of righteousness. 
24:12: They have cast the weak out of the city and their own houses, And the soul of the infants sighed greatly. Why then has He not visited them? 
24:13: “They are ones on the earth who do not know the Lord, And they do not understand the way of righteousness, Nor do they walk in His paths. 
24:14: But He knows their works, and delivered them into darkness; And one shall be like a thief in the night. 
24:15: For the eye of the adulterer watches for the darkness, Saying, ‘No eye will perceive me;’ and he puts a covering on his face. 
24:16: In the dark he breaks into houses; In the daytime they seal themselves up; They do not know the light. 
24:17: For in due time, the shadow of death will be the same to them, Because they shall know the troubles of the shadow of death. 
24:18: “He is swift on the face of the waters; May his portion be cursed on earth. 
24:19: May their plants wither on earth, For they have taken away from the orphans Even the smallest portions. 
24:20: Then his sin is recalled to memory, And he vanishes like a mist of dew; But what he has done may it be recompensed to him, And may every wrongdoer be crushed like rotten wood. 
24:21: For he has not treated the barren woman well, And showed no mercy to the feeble woman. 
24:22: “In his anger, he overturns the weak; Therefore when he rises up, no one believes his own life is safe. 
24:23: When he falls sick, let him not hope to recover, But let him perish by disease. 
24:24: For his exaltation mistreated many, But he has withered as mallows in the heat, Or as an ear of corn falling on its own from the stalk. 
24:25: “If it is not so, who says I speak falsely, And will make my speech worth nothing?

