4:1: “For behold, in those days and at that time, when I bring back the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,
4:2: I shall also gather all the nations together, and bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat, and there I will enter into judgment against them on account of My people and My inheritance Israel, who were dispersed among the nations—against those who divided My land
4:3: and who cast lots over My people and traded boys for prostitutes and sold girls for the wine they drank.
4:4: Indeed, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the coast of Philistia, what have you to do with Me? Are you paying Me back for a grudge you hold against Me? If so, I shall return your retaliation swiftly and immediately upon your own head,
4:5: because you have taken My silver and My gold and taken My precious possessions into your temples,
4:6: and because you sold the sons of Judah and Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks, in order to exile them far from their borders.
4:7: Behold, I shall raise them up from the place where you sold them, and I shall return your retribution upon your own head.
4:8: I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hands of the sons of Judah, and they will sell them into captivity to a far distant nation, for the Lord has spoken.”
4:9: Proclaim these things among the nations: “Prepare for war; arouse the warriors; draw near and go up, all you men of war.
4:10: Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, ‘I am strong.’
4:11: Assemble together, and join in, all you nations round about. And in that place, gather yourselves together; let the gentle be warlike.
4:12: Let all the nations rouse themselves and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I shall sit to judge all the nations round about.
4:13: “Bring out the sickles, for the harvest is ripe. Come in and tread the grapes, for the winepress is full, the wine vats overflow; for their wickedness is multiplied.
4:14: The news resounded in the valley of judgment, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of judgment.
4:15: The sun and moon shall become dark, and the stars shall withdraw their light.
4:16: And the Lord shall cry out from Zion, and He shall utter His voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and earth will quake, but the Lord shall keep His people safe and shall strengthen the sons of Israel.
4:17: So you shall know that I am the Lord your God, the one dwelling in Zion, on My holy mountain. Then Jerusalem shall be a holy city, and no more will strangers pass through her.
4:18: “And it will come to pass in that day that the mountains shall drip sweetness, and milk shall flow from the hills, and all the brooks of Judah shall flow with water. And a fountain shall flow out from the house of the Lord, and it will supply water to the Valley of Acacias.
4:19: Egypt shall become a desolation and Edom a wilderness, because of the wrongdoings against the people of Judah; because of the innocent blood shed in their land.
4:20: But Judah shall be inhabited forever and Jerusalem unto generations of generations.
4:21: And I shall avenge their blood and shall not let it go unpunished. The Lord shall dwell in Zion.”
