1:1: After the death of Moses, the Lord spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, the assistant of Moses, saying, 
1:2: “Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, you and all this people, and cross over Jordan into the land I will give them. 
1:3: Every place on which you tread with your feet, I will give it to you, as I said to Moses. 
1:4: Your territories shall be the desert and Lebanon as far as the great river, the Euphrates River; and from the setting of the sun to the farthest sea. 
1:5: No man shall be able to oppose you all the days of your life, and as I was with Moses, thus I will be also with you. I will not forsake you nor disregard you. 
1:6: “Be strong and courageous, for you will divide this land which I swore to your fathers to give them. 
1:7: Be strong, therefore, and courageous to guard yourself and to do as Moses My servant commanded you; then you will not turn away from them, to the right nor to the left. In this way, you will have understanding in whatever you do. 
1:8: The book of this law shall not depart from your mouth, and you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may have the understanding to do all the things written therein. Then you will both prosper, make your ways prosperous, and have understanding. 
1:9: Behold, I have commanded you. Be strong and courageous. Do not be cowardly or fearful, for the Lord your God is with you in all things, wherever you go.” 
1:10: Then Joshua commanded the scribes of the people, saying, 
1:11: “Enter the midst of the people’s camp and command the people, saying, ‘Prepare the supply of food, for yet three days you shall cross this Jordan and enter the land to possess what the Lord God of your fathers will give you.’ ” 
1:12: Then to Reuben, Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joshua said, 
1:13: “Remember the word of the Lord which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, saying, ‘The Lord your God has caused you to rest and has given you this land.’ 
1:14: Your wives, your children and your cattle shall dwell in the land He has given you; but you shall cross over well-armed before your brethren, everyone who is strong, and you shall fight by their side; 
1:15: until the Lord your God has caused your brethren to rest, and you as well, and they have taken possession of the land which the Lord your God has given them. Then each of you shall depart to his inheritance which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan eastward.” 
1:16: Then they answered Joshua and said, “We will do all you command us to do, and we will go everywhere you send us. 
1:17: We will heed you as we heeded Moses; only let the Lord our God be with you as He was with Moses. 
1:18: But whatever man disobeys you and does not heed your words as you command him, let him die; but you be strong and courageous.”

