7:1: But the children of Israel committed a great offense, for they kept back for themselves something from what was accursed. Achan the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took something from what was accursed, and the Lord was very angry with the sons of Israel. 
7:2: Then Joshua sent men into Ai, which is near Bethel, saying, “Spy out Ai.” So the men went up, and spied out Ai. 
7:3: After this, they returned to Joshua and said to him, “Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and force the city to surrender. Do not lead all the people there, for they are few in number.” 
7:4: Thus, about three thousand men went up, but they fled from the face of the men of Ai. 
7:5: The men of Ai killed thirty-six of them and pursued them from the gate; and they crushed them on the steep slope. So the hearts of the people were terrified and became as water. 
7:6: Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the ground before the face of the Lord until evening, both he and the elders of Israel, and they put dust on their heads. 
7:7: Joshua said, “I beseech You, O Lord. Why did Your servant lead this people over Jordan to deliver them to the Amorite to destroy us? If only we had remained and dwelt on the other side of the Jordan. 
7:8: What shall I say, since Israel turned his back before his enemy? 
7:9: When the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land hear this, they will surround us and destroy us from off the land. Then what will You do for Your great name?” 
7:10: So the Lord said to Joshua, “Rise up. Why have you fallen upon your face? 
7:11: The people sinned and transgressed the covenant I made with them; for they stole something from what was accursed and put it among their goods. 
7:12: So the sons of Israel will be unable to stand against the face of their enemies. They will turn their backs before their enemies, because they are accursed; and I will not be with you until you remove the accursed thing from among you. 
7:13: Rise up and sanctify the people; and tell them to be sanctified for tomorrow. Thus says the Lord God of Israel, ‘The accursed thing is among you. You shall not be able to stand against your enemies until you remove the accursed thing from among you. 
7:14: In the morning you shall all be gathered together by your tribes, and it shall come to pass that the tribe the Lord points out, you shall bring forward family by family. Then the family the Lord points out, you shall bring household by household. After this, the household the Lord points out, you shall bring man by man. 
7:15: So whoever is pointed out, he shall be burned with fire along with whatever he has, because he transgressed the covenant of the Lord and brought lawlessness in Israel.’ ” 
7:16: Now Joshua arose early in the morning and gathered the people tribe by tribe; and the tribe of Judah was pointed out. 
7:17: Then he brought family by family, and the family of Zara was pointed out. After this, he brought man by man, 
7:18: and Achan, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, was pointed out. 
7:19: Thus, Joshua said to Achan, “Give glory to the Lord God of Israel today and make confession. Tell me what you did and hide nothing from me.” 
7:20: So Achan answered Joshua and said, “Truly, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. Thus and thus I did: 
7:21: I saw a beautiful, multicolored garment in the spoil and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of fifty shekels of gold. I desired them and took them. Behold, they are hidden in the ground in my tent, and the silver is concealed under them.” 
7:22: Then Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent in the camp. These things were hidden in the tent, with the silver under them. 
7:23: They carried them from the tent; and they brought them to Joshua and the elders of Israel and placed them before the Lord. 
7:24: After this, Joshua took Achan the son of Zerah and led him up to the Valley of Achor, along with his sons and daughters, and his calves, and all his donkeys and sheep, and his tent and all his belongings. Thus he led them all to the Valley of Achor. 
7:25: And Joshua said to Achan, “Why did you destroy us? May the Lord destroy you this very day.” Then all Israel stoned him with stones; 
7:26: and they put over him a great heap of stones, and the Lord ceased from the wrath of his anger. Therefore and to this day, the place is named the Valley of Achor.

