5:1: Then it came to pass, when the kings of the Amorites on the other side of the Jordan and the kings of the Phoenicians near the sea heard that the Lord God had dried up the Jordan River before the children of Israel when they crossed over, their minds fainted, they were panic-stricken, and there was no more sense left in them because of the presence of the children of Israel. 
5:2: At about this time, the Lord said to Joshua, “Make stone knives for yourself from a sharp rock, and sit down and circumcise the sons of Israel.” 
5:3: So Joshua made sharp stone knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at the place called the Hill of Foreskins. 
5:4: In this manner, Joshua completely purified the sons of Israel, as many as were born at any time along the way and as many as were uncircumcised after they came out of Egypt. 
5:5: Joshua circumcised all these. 
5:6: For Israel lived in the Madbarite desert for forty-two years; therefore, most of their fighting men who came out of Egypt and who disobeyed the commandments of God were uncircumcised. Concerning these, He also determined that they would not see the land which the Lord swore to give to their fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey. 
5:7: But in their place, He raised up their sons, whom Joshua circumcised because they were born during the journey and thus were uncircumcised. 
5:8: So when they were circumcised, they rested there and stayed in the camp until they were healed. 
5:9: Then the Lord said to Joshua the son of Nun, “Today I have removed the disgrace of Egypt from you.” Thus he called the name of that place Gilgal. 
5:10: Then the children of Israel kept Pascha on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, to the west of Jericho, across the Jordan in the plain. 
5:11: They ate of the unleavened and new wheat of the land. 
5:12: On this day, the manna ceased, after they ate from the wheat of the land. Thus, the children of Israel no longer had manna, for they enjoyed the fruits in the land of the Phoenicians in that year. 
5:13: Then it came to pass, when Joshua was at Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing before him with a sword drawn in his hand. So Joshua came near and said to him, “Are you for us or on the side of our adversaries?” 
5:14: He said to him, “I am now come, the chief captain of the host of the Lord.” Then Joshua fell on his face upon the earth and said to him, “O Master, what do you command your servant?” 
5:15: The chief captain of the Lord said to Joshua, “Loose the shoe from your feet; for the place on which you stand is holy.”

