14:1: These are the areas which the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel distributed as an inheritance to them. 
14:2: Their inheritance was by lot, as the Lord commanded by the hand of Joshua for the nine tribes and the half-tribe. 
14:3: For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half-tribe on the other side of the Jordan; but to the Levites he had given no inheritance among them. 
14:4: For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim; and they gave no part to the Levites in the land, except cities to dwell in, with common-lands for their livestock and their property. 
14:5: As the Lord had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did; and they divided the land. 
14:6: Then the children of Judah came to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said to him, “You know what the Lord said to Moses the man of God concerning myself and you in Kadesh Barnea. 
14:7: For I was forty years old when Moses the servant of God sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land, and I brought back word to him as he wished, 
14:8: but my brothers who went up with me turned aside the heart of the people, while I continued to follow the Lord my God. 
14:9: So Moses swore on that day, saying, ‘The land on which you set foot shall be an inheritance for you and your children forever, because you continued to follow the Lord our God.’ 
14:10: Now the Lord has sustained me, as He said, these forty-five years, since the Lord spoke this word to Moses, and Israel wandered in the desert; and now behold I am eighty-five years old today. 
14:11: I am still as strong today as when Moses sent me, as strong now to go out and come in for war. 
14:12: Now therefore, I ask you for this mountain, as the Lord said in that day, since you heard this word in that day. For now the Anakim are there with large and fortified cities; therefore, if the Lord is with me, I will utterly destroy them, as the Lord said to me.” 
14:13: So Joshua blessed him, and gave Hebron to Caleb the Son of Jephunneh, the son of Kenez, as an inheritance. 
14:14: Therefore Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite to this day, because he followed the command of the Lord God of Israel. 
14:15: But the name of Hebron was formerly Kirjath Arba, the capital of the Anakim. Then the land rested from war.

