9:1: When the kings of the Amorites on the other side of the Jordan, and those in the hills and in the lowland, and in all the coasts of the Great Sea, and those near Lebanon, and the Hittites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Amorites, the Girgashites and the Jebusites heard what happened, 
9:2: they all came together in one place to war against Joshua and Israel. 
9:3: Then Joshua built an altar to the Lord, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal, 
9:4: which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded the sons of Israel as written in the Law of Moses concerning an altar of whole stones, upon which an iron tool should not be laid. There they offered whole burnt offerings to the Lord, and a sacrifice of peace offering. 
9:5: Joshua also wrote on stones the second law of the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the sons of Israel. 
9:6: All Israel and their elders and judges and their scribes also passed by on each side of the ark. Then the priests and the Levites took up the ark of the covenant of the Lord. The resident aliens and those born among them, half of them stood near Mount Gerizim, and half of them near Mount Ebal, as Moses the servant of the Lord commanded when he blessed the people the first time. 
9:7: Thus after this, Joshua read all the words of this law, the blessings and the curses, according to everything written in the Law of Moses. 
9:8: There was not a word from everything Moses commanded Joshua that Joshua did not read in the ears of all the assembly of the children of Israel, to the men, women, and children, and to the resident aliens who came with Israel. 
9:9: When the inhabitants of Gibeon heard everything the Lord did to Jericho and Ai, 
9:10: indeed they also devised a crafty plan. So they went and supplied themselves with provisions and prepared themselves. They took old sacks on their shoulders and old, torn, and patched bottles of wine. 
9:11: The upper part of their shoes and sandals were old and crudely patched on their feet; and the clothing they wore was worn out. The bread of their provision was dry, dirty, and moldy. 
9:12: Then they came to Joshua at Israel’s camp in Gilgal and said to Joshua and Israel, “We have come from a far land. Now then, make a covenant with us.” 
9:13: The children of Israel said to the Hivites, “Perhaps you live among us. How then can I make a covenant with you?’ 
9:14: So they replied to Joshua, “We are your servants.” Joshua then said to them, “Who are you, and where do you come from?” 
9:15: So they said, “Your servants have come from a very distant land in the name of the Lord your God; for we heard of His name, and everything He did in Egypt, 
9:16: and everything He did to the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon the king of Heshbon and to Og the king of Bashan, who dwelled in Ashtaroth and Edrei. 
9:17: “So when we heard this, our elders and all those who inhabited our land spoke to us, saying, ‘Take provisions for yourselves for the road, and go to meet them and say to them, “We are your servants. Now then, make a covenant with us.’ ” 
9:18: These are the loaves of bread, and we took them hot for our journey on the day we left to come to you; but now they are dried and have become moldy. 
9:19: These are the wineskins we filled when new; but they are torn, and our clothing and shoes are old because of the very long journey.” 
9:20: Then the rulers took some of their provisions, but they did not inquire of the Lord. 
9:21: Joshua then made peace with them and established a covenant to keep them safe; and the rulers of the congregation swore to them. 
9:22: Now it came to pass that three days after they made a covenant with them, they heard that they were near neighbors and that they dwelt among them. 
9:23: Then the children of Israel departed and came to their cities. Their cities were Gibeon and Chephirah and Beeroth, and the city of Kirjathjearim. 
9:24: The sons of Israel did not fight with them, because all the rulers had sworn to them by the Lord God of Israel; but all the congregation complained against the rulers. 
9:25: So the rulers said to all the congregation, “We swore an oath to them by the Lord God of Israel, and now we cannot touch them. 
9:26: This is what we will do. We will capture them alive and keep them safe, so no wrath will come upon us because of the oath we swore to them. 
9:27: They shall live, but they shall be woodcutters and water-carriers for the entire congregation, as the rulers direct them.” 
9:28: Thus Joshua summoned them together and spoke to them, saying, “Why have you deceived me, saying, ‘We are very far from you,’ when you are fellow-countrymen of those who dwell among us? 
9:29: Now therefore, you are cursed, and there shall not fail to be a servant nor a woodcutter among you to serve me and my God.” 
9:30: So they answered Joshua, saying, “It was reported to us what the Lord your God ordered His servant Moses, to give you this land and to destroy us and all who dwell in it from before you. Thus we did this thing, because we feared greatly for our lives before you. 
9:31: Now behold, we are in your hands, do to us as it is pleases you and as it seems good to you.” 
9:32: So they did this to them in this way, and Joshua delivered them on that day from the hands of the children of Israel; and they did not kill them. 
9:33: On that day, Joshua appointed them to be woodcutters and water-carriers for the entire congregation and for the altar of God. Therefore, the inhabitants of Gibeon became woodcutters and water-carriers for the altar of God until this very day, and for the place the Lord chose for Himself.

