11:1: But when Jabin the king of Hazor heard this, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, to the king of Shimron, to the king of Achshaph, 
11:2: to the kings from the north in the mountains, and in the plain south of Chinneroth in the lowland, and in the heights of Dor on the west, 
11:3: to the Canaanites in the east and the west: the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Jebusite in the mountains, and the Hivite below Hermon in the land of Mizpah. 
11:4: They and their kings with them, as many in number as the sand of the sea, went out with a great many horses and chariots. 
11:5: All these kings came together to meet and camp together by the waters of Merom to war against Israel. 
11:6: Then the Lord said to Joshua, “Fear not before their presence, for tomorrow at this hour, I will deliver them to you and put them to flight in the sight of Israel. You shall hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire.” 
11:7: So Joshua and all the people of war went against them suddenly at the waters of Merom and attacked them in the hill country. 
11:8: The Lord delivered them into the hands of Israel, and they defeated and chased them to Sidon, the Great Sidon, to Brook Misrephoth, and eastward to the Valley of Mizpah. They attacked them until there were no survivors. 
11:9: Thus Joshua did to them as the Lord commanded him. He hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots with fire. 
11:10: At that time, Joshua returned and seized Hazor and its king; for Hazor ruled over all these kingdoms in previous times. 
11:11: They put to death every living thing in it with the sword. They utterly destroyed them all, leaving no one alive, and set Hazor on fire. 
11:12: Joshua captured all the cities of their kingdoms and their kings, and put them to death by the edge of the sword. They utterly destroyed them, as Moses the servant of the Lord ordered them. 
11:13: But Israel did not burn any of the fortified cities. Joshua only burned down Hazor. 
11:14: The children of Israel took all its spoils for themselves, and they completely destroyed everyone with the edge of the sword, until there were no survivors. 
11:15: As the Lord ordered his servant Moses, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did. He did not deviate from all that Moses commanded him. 
11:16: After this, Joshua took all the hill country of the land, all the South, all the land of Goshen, the plains of the land, the land to the west, the mountain of Israel, the low country 
11:17: toward the mountain, from Mount Halak to the ascent to Seir, even as far as Baal Gad and the plains of Lebanon below Mount Hermon. He seized all their kings, took them away, and put them to death. 
11:18: Joshua waged war with these kings for many days, 
11:19: and there was not a city Israel did not take. They took them all in battle. 
11:20: For it was of the Lord to harden their heart to wage war against Israel, that they might be utterly destroyed and be shown no mercy, but that they might be utterly destroyed, as the Lord said to Moses. 
11:21: At that time, Joshua came and utterly destroyed the Anakim from the mountains: from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the nation of Israel, and from all the mountains of Judah, including their cities. Joshua utterly destroyed them. 
11:22: No Anakim remained in the midst of the children of Israel, but only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod. 
11:23: So Joshua took all the land, as the Lord commanded Moses, and Joshua gave it as an inheritance to Israel by division, according to their tribes. Then the land rested from war.

