21:1: Now the heads of the fathers of the sons of Levi came to Eleazar the priest, to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the chiefs of the tribes of the fathers from the tribes of Israel, 
21:2: and spoke to them in Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, “The Lord commanded through the hand of Moses that we be given cities to dwell in, with the common-lands for our cattle.” 
21:3: So the children of Israel gave the Levites a portion of their inheritance at the command of the Lord, cities and their common-lands. 
21:4: Now the lot came out for the family of the Kohathites, and from the tribe of Judah, the tribe of Simeon, and the tribe of Benjamin, there were thirteen cities given by lot to the sons of Aaron, who were priests among the Levites. 
21:5: For the remaining sons of Kohath, ten cities were chosen by lot from the tribe of Ephraim, the tribe of Dan, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. 
21:6: For the sons of Gershon, there were thirteen cities by lot from the tribe of Issachar, the tribe of Asher, the tribe of Naphtali, and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. 
21:7: For the sons of Merari according to their families, there were twelve cities by lot from the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zebulun. 
21:8: So the children of Israel gave the Levites cities and their common-lands by lot, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
21:9: From the tribe of the sons of Judah, and the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, they gave the cities, designated by name, 
21:10: to the sons of Aaron from the family of Kohath, who were of the sons of Levi, because the lot was theirs. 
21:11: They gave them Kirjath Arba, the capital of the sons of Anak (which is Hebron), in the mountains of Judah, with the common-land surrounding it. 
21:12: But the fields of the city and its villages Joshua gave to the sons of Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, as their possession. 
21:13: Thus to the sons of Aaron they gave Hebron with its common-land (a city of refuge for the slayer), Libna with its common-land, 
21:14: Jattir with its common-land, Eshtemoa with its common-land, 
21:15: Holon with its common-land, Debir with its common-land, 
21:16: Ain with its common-land, Juttah with its common-land, and Beth Shemesh with its common-land: nine cities from those two tribes; 
21:17: and from the tribe of Benjamin: Gibeon with its common-land, Geba with its common-land, 
21:18: Anathoth with its common-land, and Almon with its commonland: four cities. 
21:19: All the cities of the sons of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities with their common-lands. 
21:20: Now the families of the sons of Kohath, the Levites, the rest of the sons of Kohath, had cities of their lot from the tribe of Ephraim. 
21:21: For they gave them Shechem with its commonland in the mountains of Ephraim (a city of refuge for the slayer), Gezer with its commonland, 
21:22: Kibzaim with its common-land, and Beth Horon with its common-land: four cities; 
21:23: and from the tribe of Dan: Eltekeh with its common-land, Gibbethon with its commonland, 
21:24: Aijalon with its common-land, and Gath Rimmon with its common-land: four cities; 
21:25: and from the half-tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with its common-land and Jebatha with its common-land: two cities. 
21:26: All ten cities with their common-lands were for the rest of the families of the sons of Kohath. 
21:27: To the sons of Gershon, to the Levites, from the half-tribe of Manasseh, they gave Golan in Bashan with its common-land (a city of refuge for the slayer), and Be Eshterah with its common-land: two cities; 
21:28: and from the tribe of Issachar, Kishion with its common-land, Daberath with its common-land, 
21:29: Jarmuth with its common-land, and En Gannim with its common-land: four cities; 
21:30: and from the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its common-land, Abdon with its common-land, 
21:31: Helkath with its common-land, and Rehob with its commonland: four cities; 
21:32: and from the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its common-land (a city of refuge for the slayer), Hammoth Dor with its common-land, and Kartan with its common-land: three cities. 
21:33: All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities with their common-lands. 
21:34: To the family of the sons of Merari, the rest of the Levites, from the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with its common-land, Kartah with its common-land, 
21:35: Dimnah with its commonland, and Nahalal with its common-land: four cities; 
21:36: and from the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the desert of Misor with its common-land (a city of refuge for the slayer), Jahaz with its common-land, 
21:37: Kedemoth with its common-land, and Mephaath with its common-land: four cities; 
21:38: and from the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its common-land (a city of refuge for the slayer), Mahanaim with its common-land, 
21:39: Heshbon with its common-land, and Jazer with its common-land: four cities in all. 
21:40: So all the cities for the sons of Merari according to their families, the rest of the tribe of Levi, were by their lot twelve cities. 
21:41: All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the sons of Israel were forty-eight cities with their common-lands. 
21:42: Every one of these cities had its common-land surrounding it; thus were all these cities. 
21:43: So Joshua finished dividing the land according to their borders, 
21:44: and the children of Israel gave a portion to Joshua according to the Lord’s command. They gave him the city he requested, which was Timnath Serah in the mountain of Ephraim, 
21:45: and Joshua built the city and dwelt in it. 
21:46: Then Joshua took the stone knives with which he circumcised the sons of Israel who were born on the way in the desert, and he put them in Timnath Serah. 
21:47: So the Lord gave Israel all the land He had sworn to give to their fathers; and they took possession of it and dwelt in it. 
21:48: The Lord gave them rest all around, as He had sworn to their fathers, and no one rose up against them from all their enemies. The Lord delivered all their enemies into their hands. 
21:49: Not a word failed of any good thing the Lord had spoken to the children of Israel. All came to pass.

