2:1: After this, Joshua the son of Nun sent out two young men from Acacia Grove to spy out the land, saying, “Go and see the land and Jericho.” So the two young men went and entered Jericho; and they went into the house of a harlot named Rahab and lodged there. 
2:2: This was reported to the king of Jericho, saying, “Behold, men from the sons of Israel have come to spy on the land.” 
2:3: So the king of Jericho sent and spoke to Rahab, saying, “Bring out the men who came into your house last night; for they are here to spy on the land.” 
2:4: But the woman took the men and hid them, and she spoke to them, saying, “The men came to me; 
2:5: but as the gate was being shut in the darkness, the men went out. I do not know where they went. Pursue them, if indeed you may overtake them.” 
2:6: But she led them to the roof and hid them in the stalk of flax she had piled together on the roof. 
2:7: So the men searched for them along the road to the Jordan, to the fords, and the gate was closed. Then it came to pass, when the men who pursued them went after them 
2:8: and before the spies went to sleep, that she went to them on the roof 
2:9: and said, “I know that the Lord gave you the land, for fear of you has fallen upon us. 
2:10: For we heard that the Lord God dried up the Red Sea before you when you came out of the land of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and to Og, whom you utterly destroyed. 
2:11: So when we heard it, we were amazed in our heart, and there was no longer any spirit in any of us because of your presence, for your God is in heaven above and on earth below. 
2:12: Now therefore, swear to me by the Lord God that as I showed you mercy, you shall also be merciful to me in my father’s house, 
2:13: and capture alive all my house: my father and mother, and my brothers, and everything they have, and deliver my soul from death.” 
2:14: Then the men said to her, “Our life for your life, even to death.” She then said, “When the Lord shall deliver the city to you, deal with me in mercy and truth.” 
2:15: After this, she let them down through the window 
2:16: and said to them, “Go away to the hill country, lest the pursuers happen to find you. Hide there for three days until your pursuers return from their search for you. Afterwards, you shall depart and go your way.” 
2:17: So the men said to her, “We will be without fault regarding this oath of yours. 
2:18: For behold, we will come into a part of the city, and you will set a sign; you shall hang this scarlet cord in the window through which you let us down. Then you shall gather yourself and your father and mother and your brothers into your father’s house. 
2:19: Whoever shall go outside the door of your house, his guilt shall be upon him, and we will be free of this oath of yours. But we will be responsible for whoever is with you in your house. 
2:20: But if anyone injures us or reveals these words of ours, we shall be free from this oath of yours.” 
2:21: Then she said to them, “Let it be so according to your word.” So she sent them away. 
2:22: They departed and went to the hill country and remained there for three days; and the pursuers searched all the roads, but did not find them. 
2:23: So the two young men returned and came down from the mountain. They crossed over to Joshua the son of Nun and told him everything that happened to them. 
2:24: They said to Joshua, “The Lord will deliver all the land into our hand, for everyone who inhabits that land cowers in fear because of us.”

