10:1: After Abimelech, Tola the son of Puah arose to save Israel, the son of his father’s brother, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in Shamir on Mount Ephraim. 
10:2: He judged Israel twenty-three years; and he died and was buried in Shamir. 
10:3: After him arose Jair of Gilead; and he judged Israel twenty-two years. 
10:4: He had thirty-two sons who rode on thirty-two colts, and they had thirty-two cities, which are called the villages of Jair to this day in the land of Gilead. 
10:5: And Jair died and was buried in Ramnon. 
10:6: Then the sons of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord, serving Baals and the Ashtoreths, the gods of Arad, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the sons of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook the Lord and did not serve Him. 
10:7: And the Lord was enraged with anger against Israel, and He delivered them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the sons of Ammon. 
10:8: And they afflicted and oppressed the sons of Israel for a time of eighteen years, all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, in Gilead. 
10:9: Moreover the sons of Ammon crossed the Jordan to war against Judah, and Benjamin, with Ephraim. The children of Israel suffered severely. 
10:10: And the sons of Israel cried out to the Lord, saying, “We have sinned against You, because we have forsaken God and have served the Baals!” 
10:11: So the Lord said to the sons of Israel, “Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians and from the Amorites and from the sons of Ammon and from the Philistines, 
10:12: from the Sidonians and Amalekites and Maonites who oppressed you when you cried out to Me, and I delivered you from their hand? 
10:13: Yet you have forsaken Me and served other gods. Therefore I will deliver you no more. 
10:14: Go and cry out to the gods you have chosen for yourselves; let them deliver you in the time of your distress.” 
10:15: And the sons of Israel said to the Lord, “We have sinned! Do to us whatever is good in Your eyes; only deliver us this day.” 
10:16: So they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the Lord alone. And His soul was grieved by the misery of Israel. 
10:17: Then the sons of Ammon went up and encamped in Gilead. And the sons of Israel assembled together and encamped at the lookout. 
10:18: And each of the leaders of Gilead said to his neighbor, “Who is the man who will begin the fight against the sons of Ammon? He shall indeed be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”

