12:1: Then the men of Ephraim cried out, went by to the north, and said to Jephthah, “Why did you pass by to fight against the sons of Ammon, and did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house down around you with fire.” 
12:2: And Jephthah said to them, “I and my people were engaged in intense fighting with the sons of Ammon; and I called you, but you did not deliver me from their hands. 
12:3: So when I saw that you were not a savior, I put my life in my hands and passed on to the sons of Ammon; and the Lord delivered them into my hand. Why then did you come to fight against me today?” 
12:4: Now Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead and went to war against Ephraim. Gilead defeated Ephraim, since those of Ephraim who escaped said, “You of Gilead are in the midst of Ephraim and in the midst of Manasseh.” 
12:5: Gilead seized the fords of the River Jordan needed to enter Ephraim. And those of Ephraim who escaped said to the men of Gilead, “Let us cross over.” And the men of Gilead questioned, “Are you not of Ephraim?” If one said, “No,” 
12:6: they then said to him, “Say the word, ‘Stachys’!” If he was unable to repeat the word in the same way, they seized him and killed him at the ford of the River Jordan. At that time, forty-two thousand from Ephraim fell. 
12:7: Jephthah judged Israel sixty years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in his city in Gilead. 
12:8: After him, Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel. 
12:9: He had thirty sons and thirty daughters, and he sent away thirty daughters in marriage, and brought in thirty daughters from without for his sons. He judged Israel seven years. 
12:10: Then Ibzan died and was buried at Bethlehem. 
12:11: After him, Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel. He judged Israel ten years. 
12:12: And Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried at Aijalon in the country of Zebulun. 
12:13: After him, Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel. 
12:14: He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy colts. He judged Israel eight years. 
12:15: Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mountains of the Amalekites.

