5:1: Then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying: 
5:2: A revelation was made known in Israel, To the people who were willing, bless the Lord! 
5:3: O kings, receive the news! O princes, listen closely! I, even I, will sing to the Lord; I will sing a psalm to the Lord God of Israel. 
5:4: Lord, when You went out in Seir, When You left from the field of Edom, The earth trembled and the heavens poured dew, The clouds poured water; 
5:5: The mountains were shaken before the Lord Eloi, This Sinai, before the Lord God of Israel. 
5:6: In the days of Shamgar son of Anath, in the days of Jael, They deserted the main road, and traveled the by-ways, Corrupting the way as they went. 
5:7: The mighty of Israel failed, they came to an end; Until Deborah, whom He raised; Until a mother whom He raised in Israel. 
5:8: They chose new gods; Then the cities of the rulers waged war; Not a shield or a spear was seen Among the forty thousand in Israel. 
5:9: My heart is with the leaders of Israel; To those among the people who freely sacrifice, bless the Lord! 
5:10: You who mount upon a female donkey at midday, Sitting on the seat of judgment, Who conducts your life on the road, mediating along the way, 
5:11: Turn -back and shout out every detail While drawing up water; There, in that place, what is rightful to the Lord, is given, Spreading righteousness in Israel. Then the people of the Lord came down to the cities. 
5:12: Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, sing a song! Arise, Barak, O son of Abinoam, and lead your host of captives captive! 
5:13: Then the remant came down to the mighty; The people of the Lord came down to him, to the mighty. 
5:14: My Ephraim rooted them out in Amalek; O Benjamin, your people were behind you. Machir came to know more about Me, And from Zebulun, those able to record with the pen of a scribe. 
5:15: And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah and Barak, So she sent Barak into the valley by foot. Among the regions of Reuben There were great resolves of heart. 
5:16: Why go up to sit in the midst of the sheepfold, To hear the trumpet of the angels? In the divisions of Reuben There were great searchings of heart. 
5:17: Gilead is beyond the Jordan, where he made his dwelling; Why did Dan remain on the ships? Asher sat down on the seashore, And he will dwell at his seaports. 
5:18: The people of Zebulun reproached its soul unto death, And Naphtali denounced the high places of the fields. 
5:19: Kings set themselves in battle array; Then the kings of Canaan waged war in Taanach, By the waters of Megiddo; They took no gift of silver. 
5:20: The stars of the heavens were arrayed for battle; On their path, they arrayed themselves to war against Sisera. 
5:21: The brook of Kishon swept them away, That ancient brook, the brook of Kishon; My mighty soul will trample him down. 
5:22: When the hooves of the horses were fettered, In earnest, his mighty ones hastened. 
5:23: Curse Meroz, said the angel of the Lord, Curse them, Cursed is every one who dwells there, Because they did not come to the help of the Lord, To the help of the Lord, against the mighty. 
5:24: Jael is blessed among women, The wife of Heber the Kenite; Blessed is she from among the women in tents. 
5:25: He requested water, she gave him milk in a dish; Surpassing this, she offered butter. 
5:26: She stretched her left hand to the tent peg, Her right hand to the workmen’s hammer; She drove the nail through his head with a hammer; She put the nail into his temple. 
5:27: He rolled down between her feet; He fell and lay between her feet; He bent over and fell; When he sat down there, he fell, departing life. 
5:28: The mother of Sisera peered out through the archer’s window; For his chariot is not where it should be, For the feet of his chariot’s horses tarry. 
5:29: The wise of her leading ladies answered her, And she answered to herself, 
5:30: Will they not find him dividing the spoil; The merciful having compassion for the head of a man; spoils of the dyed garments for Sisera; The spoils of dyed embroidery, Embroider’s dyes as spoils for his neck? 
5:31: O Lord, let all Your enemies perish in the way; And those desiring Him, be as the coming out of His sun in power. And let the land be at peace for forty years.

