3:1: Now these are the nations the Lord left so that He might test Israel by them, that is, all who did not experience first-hand, any of the wars in Canaan, 
3:2: (only for the sake of the generations of Israel, to teach them warfare; only those who did not previously experience it): 
3:3: the five provinces of the foreign nations, and every Canaanite and the Sidonites, and the Hivites who dwelt in Lebanon, from Mount Hermon to Laboemath. 
3:4: And it was so that He might test Israel by them, to know whether they would hear the commandments of the Lord, which He commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. 
3:5: Thus the sons of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
3:6: And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons; and they served their gods. 
3:7: In this way the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. They forgot the Lord their God, and served the Baals and the sacred groves. 
3:8: Therefore the Lord was enraged with anger at Israel, and He sold them into the hand of Cushan-Rishathaim king of Syria of the rivers; and the sons of Israel served Cushan-Rishathaim for eight years. 
3:9: When the sons of Israel cried out to the Lord, the Lord raised up a savior for Israel and saved them, that is, Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb. 
3:10: And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he judged Israel. He went out to war against Cushan-Rishathaim, and the Lord delivered Cushan-Rishathaim king of Syria of the rivers into his hand; and his hand prevailed over Cushan-Rishathaim. 
3:11: Then the land remained at peace for forty years. Then Othniel the son of Kenaz died. 
3:12: And the sons of Israel again did evil before the Lord. So the Lord strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of the Lord. 
3:13: Then he gathered to himself all the sons of Ammon and Amalek, and went and struck Israel, and took possession of the City of Palms. 
3:14: So the sons of Israel served Eglon king of Moab for eighteen years. 
3:15: But when the sons of Israel cried out to the Lord, the Lord raised up a savior for them, that is, Ehud the son of Gera, the son of Benjamin, a man equally adept with both of his hands. By his hand, the sons of Israel sent gifts to Eglon king of Moab. 
3:16: Now Ehud made himself a double-edged dagger, a cubit in length, and fastened it under his clothes on his right thigh. 
3:17: So he went forth and brought the gifts to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a fat man. 
3:18: When Ehud had finished presenting the gifts, he sent away the people who had carried the gifts. 
3:19: But he himself turned back from the carved images near Gilgal, and Ehud said, “I have a secret message for you, O king.” And Eglon said to him, “Keep silence!” And he sent away all his attendants. 
3:20: And Ehud went with him to the upper summer chamber, where he could sit by himself. Then Ehud said, “I have the word of God for you, O king.” So Eglon arose from his throne near him. 
3:21: At the moment he arose, Ehud reached with his left hand, took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly, 
3:22: driving it in so the handle went in after the blade, until the fat closed over the blade. He did not draw the dagger out of his belly. 
3:23: And Ehud left the porch and passed by the guards stationed there, having shut the doors of the upper room behind him and locked them. 
3:24: After he was gone, the king’s servants went in and noticed the doors of the upper room were locked. So they said, “He is probably relieving himself in the summer chamber.” 
3:25: So they waited till they were embarrassed, and he had still not opened the doors of the upper room. They took the key and entered, and there was their master, fallen dead on the floor. 
3:26: But Ehud had escaped while they were in confusion, and thus no one paid any attention to him. So he passed beyond the carved images and escaped to Seirah. 
3:27: And when Ehud came into the land of Israel, he blew the trumpet in the mountains of Ephraim, and the sons of Israel went down with him from the mountains; and he stood before them. 
3:28: And he said to them, “Come down after me, for the Lord God has delivered our enemies the Moabites into our hand.” So they followed him and seized the fords of the Jordan leading to Moab, and did not allow anyone to cross over. 
3:29: At that time they struck about ten thousand men of Moab, all men of strength; not a man escaped. 
3:30: So Moab was put to shame that day under the hand of Israel. Indeed, the land remained at peace for eighty years. And Ehud judged them until he died. 
3:31: After him, Shamgar the son of Dinach rose up and he struck six hundred men of the Philistines with the ploughshare of the oxen. He too delivered Israel.

