13:1: Again the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. 
13:2: Now there was a certain man from Zorah, from the tribe of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren and could not give birth. 
13:3: And the Angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, “Indeed now, you are barren and have not given birth, but you shall conceive a son. 
13:4: Now therefore, be careful not to drink wine or strong drink, and do not eat anything unclean. 
13:5: For behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. And no razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.” 
13:6: So the woman went in and told her husband, saying, “A Man of God came to me, and His appearance was like the appearance of an Angel of God, very frightening. But I did not ask Him where He was from, and He did not tell me His name. 
13:7: And He said to me, ‘Behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. Now drink no wine or strong drink, and do not eat anything unclean, for the child shall be holy to God from the womb to the day of his death.’ ” 
13:8: Then Manoah prayed to the Lord and said, “Lord Adonai, please let the Man of God whom You sent come to us again and teach us what we shall do for the child who will be born.” 
13:9: And God listened to the voice of Manoah, and the Angel of God came to the woman again as she was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her. 
13:10: Then the woman ran in haste and told her husband, and said to him, “Look, the Man who came to me the other day has just now appeared to me!” 
13:11: So Manoah arose and followed his wife. When he came to the Man, he said to him, “Are You the Man who spoke to my wife?” And the Angel said, “I am.” 
13:12: Manoah said, “Now let Your words come to pass! What is to be the decision regarding the boy and his activities?” 
13:13: So the Angel of the Lord said to Manoah, “The woman will guard herself from everything I have told her. 
13:14: She may not eat anything that comes from the vine of wine, and let her not drink wine or similar strong drink, nor eat anything unclean. All that I commanded her, let her observe.” 
13:15: Then Manoah said to the Angel of the Lord, “Let us delay You here, and we will prepare a young goat for You.” 
13:16: And the Angel of the Lord said to Manoah, “Though you delay me, I will not eat your bread. But if you offer a burnt offering, you must offer it to the Lord; for Manoah did not know he was the Angel of the Lord. 
13:17: Then Manoah said to the Angel of the Lord, “What is Your name, so when Your words come to pass we may honor You?” 
13:18: And the Angel of the Lord said to him, “Why do you ask my name, is it extraordinary?” 
13:19: So Manoah took the young goat and the sacrifice, and offered it upon the rock to the Lord. And the Angel wrought a distinct work, while Manoah and his wife were looking on. 
13:20: And it so happened when the flame went up above the altar toward heaven, that the Angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar. When Manoah and his wife saw this, they fell upon their faces to the ground. 
13:21: When the Angel of the Lord appeared no more to Manoah and his wife, Manoah knew this to be the Angel of the Lord. 
13:22: And Manoah said to his wife, “We shall surely die, because we have seen God!” 
13:23: But his wife said to him, “If the Lord had desired to kill us, He would not have accepted a burnt offering and a meat offering from our hands, nor would He have shown us all these things, nor would He have made us hear such things as these at this time.” 
13:24: So the woman bore a son and called his name Samson; and the child grew, and the Lord blessed him. 
13:25: And the Spirit of the Lord began to proceed out with him at the camp of Dan between Zorah and Eshtaol.

