14:1: Now Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the foreigners. 
14:2: So he went up and told his father and mother, saying, “I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines; now therefore, get her for me as a wife.” 
14:3: Then his father and mother said to him, “Are there not daughters of your brethren, or a woman among all my people? Must you go and get a wife from the uncircumcised foreigners?” And Samson said to his father, “Get her for me, for she is right in my eyes.” 
14:4: But his father and mother did not know that it was of the Lord—that He was seeking vengeance against the Philistines. For at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. 
14:5: So Samson went down to Timnah with his father and mother, and came to the vineyards of Timnah. And behold, a young lion came roaring against him. 
14:6: And the Spirit of the Lord leapt upon Samsom, and he tore the lion apart as one would have torn apart a young goat, though he had nothing in his hands. But he did not tell his father or his mother what he had done. 
14:7: Then they went down and talked with the woman, and she was pleasing to Samson’s eyes. 
14:8: After a few days, when he returned to get her, he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion. And behold, a swarm of bees and some honey were in the mouth of the lion. 
14:9: He took some of it in his hands and went along, eating. When he came to his father and mother, he gave some to them, and they also ate. But he did not tell them that he had taken the honey out of the mouth of the lion. 
14:10: So his father went down to the woman. And Samson gave a party there for seven days, as young men do. 
14:11: And when they saw him, they brought thirty guests and they were with him. 
14:12: Then Samson said to them, “Let me tell you a riddle. If you can correctly solve and explain it to me within the seven days of the party, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing. 
14:13: But if you cannot explain it to me, then you shall give me thirty linen cloths and thirty changes of clothing.” And they said to him, “Tell the riddle; let us hear it.” 
14:14: And he said to them: “What meat comes forth from the eater, And from the strong, sweetness?” But three days passed by and they could not explain the riddle. 
14:15: But on the fourth day they said to Samson’s wife, “Now trick your husband so that he explains the riddle to you, or else we will burn you and your father’s house with fire. Did you invite us to do us violence?” 
14:16: Then Samson’s wife wept before him, and said, “You hate me! You do not love me! You told the sons of my people a riddle, but you have not explained it to me.” And Samson said to her, “If I have not explained it to my father or my mother, why should I explain it to you?” 
14:17: Now she wept before him for seven days while their wedding banquet lasted. And on the seventh day he told her, because she annoyed him so much. Then she explained the riddle to the sons of her people. 
14:18: And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun rose: “What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?” And Samson said to them: “If you had not plowed with my heifer, You would not have come to learn my riddle!” 
14:19: Then the Spirit of the Lord leapt upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and struck thirty of their men, took their apparel, and gave the changes of clothing to those who had explained the riddle. So Samson’s anger was aroused, and he went back up to his father’s house. 
14:20: And the wife of Samson was given to one of his companions, one whom he called friend.

