3:1: ‘Now if his gift for the Lord should be a peace offering, and if he should offer it from the oxen, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the Lord. 
3:2: Then he shall put his hands on the head of his gift, and kill it at the doors of the tabernacle of testimony; and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle the blood all around on the altar of whole burnt offering. 
3:3: He shall then offer from the peace offering a burnt offering to the Lord; and he shall remove its fat that covers the entrails, all the fat on the entrails, 
3:4: the two kidneys and the fat on them by the flanks, and the fatty lobe attached to the liver above the kidneys; 
3:5: and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall offer these upon the wood and fire on the altar of whole burnt offering as a burnt offering, for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
3:6: ‘Now if his peace offering should be a gift from the sheep, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish. 
3:7: If he should offer a lamb as his gift, then he shall offer it without blemish. 
3:8: Then he shall put his hands on the head of his gift, and kill it before the doors of the tabernacle of testimony; and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle its blood all around on the altar. 
3:9: He shall then offer from the peace offering, a burnt offering to God; and he shall remove its fat, the whole fat tail close to the backbone, the fat that covers the entrails, all the fat on the entrails, 
3:10: the two kidneys and the fat on them by the flanks, and the fatty lobe attached to the liver above the kidneys; 
3:11: and the priest shall offer these on the altar as a burnt offering, for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
3:12: ‘Now if his gift should be from the goats, then he shall offer it before the Lord. 
3:13: He shall put his hands on its head, and kill it before the Lord at the doors of the tabernacle of testimony; and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle its blood all around on the altar. 
3:14: Then he shall offer his burnt offering to the Lord; and he shall remove its fat that covers the entrails, all the fat on the entrails, 
3:15: the two kidneys and the fat on them by the flanks, and the fatty lobe attached to the liver above the kidneys; 
3:16: and the priest shall offer these on the altar as a burnt offering, for a sweet aroma to the Lord. All the fat is the Lord’s. 
3:17: This shall be a perpetual ordinance throughout your generations in all your dwellings: you shall eat neither fat nor blood.’ ”

