7:1: ‘Now this is the law of the trespass offering of the ram (it is most holy): 
7:2: In the place where they kill the whole burnt offering, they shall kill the ram of the trespass offering before the Lord; and its blood he shall pour all around the base of the altar. 
7:3: He shall then offer from it all its fat. The fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat above the entrails, 
7:4: the two kidneys and the fat on them by the flanks, and the fatty lobe attached to the liver above the kidneys, he shall remove. 
7:5: Then the priest shall offer them on the altar of burnt offering to the Lord. It is a trespass offering. 
7:6: Every male among the priests may eat these things. It shall be eaten in a holy place. It is most holy. 
7:7: The trespass offering is like the sin offering; there is one law for them both: the priest, who makes atonement with it, shall have it. 
7:8: Now the priest who offers a man’s whole burnt offering shall have for himself the skin of the whole burnt offering he offered. 
7:9: Also every grain offering made in the oven, and all that is made on the grate or in a frying pan, shall be the priest’s who offers it. 
7:10: Every grain offering, whether prepared with or without oil, shall belong to all the sons of Aaron, to one as much as the other. 
7:11: ‘This is the law of the sacrifice of the peace offering, which he shall offer to the Lord: 
7:12: If he should offer it for a thanksgiving, he shall offer, with the sacrifice of thanksgiving, loaves of fine flour, mixed with oil, and unleavened cakes smeared with oil, and fine flour kneaded with oil. 
7:13: Besides the unleavened loaves, he shall offer with his gifts leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offering. 
7:14: Then from all his gifts he shall offer one choice portion to the Lord. It shall belong to the priest who pours out the blood of the peace offering. 
7:15: The flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offering for thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day it is offered. He shall not leave any of it until morning. 
7:16: Now if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow or a voluntary offering, it shall be eaten the same day he offers his sacrifice; and on the next day the remainder of it may also be eaten; 
7:17: but the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire. 
7:18: But if some of the flesh should be eaten on the third day, it shall not be accepted for him who offered it, nor shall it be imputed to him; it is a defilement; and the soul who eats from it shall bear guilt. 
7:19: The flesh that should touch any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire, but all clean flesh may be eaten. 
7:20: But the soul who eats the flesh of the sacrifice of the peace offering, which is the Lord’s, while he is unclean, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from among his people. 
7:21: Moreover the soul who touches any unclean thing, or some human uncleanness, or an unclean animal, or any abominable unclean thing, and who eats some of the flesh of the sacrifice of the peace offering, which is the Lord’s, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from among his people.’ ” 
7:22: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
7:23: “Speak to the children of Israel, saying: ‘You shall not eat any fat of oxen, sheep or goats. 
7:24: Also the fat of an animal that dies naturally, and the fat of what is torn by wild beasts, may be used in any other way; but you shall by no means eat it. 
7:25: For whoever eats the fat from the cattle, which someone is going to offer to the Lord as a burnt offering, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from among his people. 
7:26: Moreover you shall not eat any blood in any of your dwellings, whether of birds or cattle. 
7:27: ‘Any soul who eats blood, that soul shall be utterly destroyed from among his people.’ ” 
7:28: Furthermore, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
7:29: “Speak to the children of Israel, saying: ‘He who offers the sacrifice of the peace offering to the Lord shall bring his gift to the Lord from the sacrifice of his peace offering. 
7:30: His own hands shall offer the burnt offerings to the Lord. The lobe of the liver and the fat upon the breast, these he shall offer, to place as gifts before the Lord. 
7:31: Then the priest shall offer the fat on the altar, but the breast shall be Aaron’s and his sons’. 
7:32: Also the right thigh you shall give to the priest as a choice portion from the sacrifices of your peace offerings. 
7:33: He among the sons of Aaron, who offers the blood of the peace offering and the fat, shall have the right thigh for his portion. 
7:34: For the breast from which the fat was offered and the thigh of the choice portion, I took from the children of Israel, from the sacrifices of your peace offerings, and I gave them to Aaron the priest and to his sons from the children of Israel by an ordinance forever.’ ” 
7:35: This is the consecrated portion for Aaron and his sons, from the burnt offerings of the Lord, on the day He presented them to minister to the Lord as priests. 
7:36: The Lord commanded this to be given to them by the children of Israel, on the day He anointed them, by an ordinance forever throughout their generations. 
7:37: This is the law of the whole burnt offerings, the grain offering, the sin offering, the trespass offering, the consecrations, and the sacrifice of the peace offering, 
7:38: in the manner the Lord commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, on the day He commanded the children of Israel to offer their gifts before the Lord in the Sinai Desert.

