19:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
19:2: “Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say to them: ‘You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. 
19:3: Every one of you shall reverence his father and mother, and keep My Sabbaths: I am the Lord your God. 
19:4: Do not follow idols, nor make for yourselves molten gods: I am the Lord your God. 
19:5: And if you offer a sacrifice of a peace offering to the Lord, you shall offer it in a manner acceptable for you. 
19:6: It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day, and if any remains until the third day, it shall be burned in the fire. 
19:7: And if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is not fit to be offered. It shall not be accepted. 
19:8: Therefore everyone who eats it shall bear his guilt, because he has defiled the holy things of the Lord; and the souls that eat it shall be utterly destroyed from among their people. 
19:9: When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest. 
19:10: Also you shall not glean your vineyard, nor shall you gather every grape of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and the resident alien: I am the Lord your God. 
19:11: ‘You shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another. 
19:12: You shall not swear by My name unjustly, nor shall you defile the name of your God: I am the Lord your God. 
19:13: You shall not treat your neighbor unjustly, nor rob him. The wages of him who is hired shall not remain with you all night until morning. 
19:14: You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind, but shall fear your God: I am the Lord your God. 
19:15: ‘You shall do no injustice in judgment. You shall not be partial to the poor, nor admire the person of the mighty. In righteousness you shall judge your neighbor. 
19:16: You shall not go about deceitfully among your people; nor shall you take a stand against the life of your neighbor: I am the Lord your God. 
19:17: You shall not hate your brother in your mind. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear guilt because of him. 
19:18: You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord. 
19:19: ‘You shall keep My law. You shall not let your cattle mate with a different species. You shall not sow your field with mixed seeds. Nor shall a garment of mixed linen and wool come upon you. 
19:20: ‘Whoever lies carnally with a woman who is betrothed to a man as a concubine, and has not at all been redeemed nor given her freedom, for this there shall be an inquiry; but they shall not be put to death, because she was not free. 
19:21: Then he shall bring his trespass offering to the Lord, to the door of the tabernacle of testimony, a ram as a trespass offering. 
19:22: The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the Lord for the sin he committed; and the sin he committed shall be remitted him. 
19:23: ‘When you come into the land the Lord your God gives you, and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall cleanse its impurity. Three years its fruit shall be impure to you. It shall not be eaten. 
19:24: But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, a praise to the Lord. 
19:25: Then in the fifth year you may eat its fruit, that it may yield to you its increase: I am the Lord your God. 
19:26: ‘You shall not eat upon the mountains, nor divine for omens, nor watch birds for omens. 
19:27: You shall not shave around the sides of your head, nor shall you disfigure the edges of your beard. 
19:28: You shall not make any gashing on your bodies for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on you: I am the Lord your God. 
19:29: Do not defile your daughter, to cause her to commit fornication, lest the land fall into fornication, and the land become full of lawlessness. 
19:30: ‘You shall keep My Sabbaths and reverence My holy things: I am the Lord. 
19:31: You shall not follow ventriloquists, nor attach yourselves to enchanters, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God. 
19:32: You shall rise before the gray headed and honor the presence of an old man, and fear your God: I am the Lord your God. 
19:33: And if a resident alien dwells with you in your land, you shall not mistreat him. 
19:34: The resident alien who dwells among you shall be to you as one born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were resident aliens in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God. 
19:35: You shall do no injustice in judgment, in measurement of length, weight, or balances. 
19:36: You shall have honest scales, honest weights, and honest measures: I am the Lord your God, who brings you out of the land of Egypt. 
19:37: ‘Therefore you shall keep all My law and all My ordinances, and perform them: I am the Lord your God.’ ”

