20:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
20:2: “Again, you shall say to the children of Israel, ‘Whoever of the children of Israel, or of the resident aliens dwelling in Israel, gives any of his children to worship a ruler, let him be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones. 
20:3: I will set My face against that man, and will destroy him from among his people, because he gave his children to a ruler, to defile My holy things and profane the name of those sanctified for Me. 
20:4: But if the natives of the land disregard that man, taking no notice of him when he gives his children to a ruler, and they do not kill him, 
20:5: then I will set My face against that man and those of his kind. For since he and those in agreement with him prostituted themselves to rulers, I will destroy them from among their people. 
20:6: Also the soul who follows ventriloquists and charmers, to prostitute himself with them, I will set My face against that soul, and destroy him from among his people. 
20:7: Therefore, you shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. 
20:8: You shall keep My ordinances, and perform them: I am the Lord who sanctifies you. 
20:9: Whatever man curses his father or mother shall surely be put to death. He cursed his father or mother. Thus he shall be guilty. 
20:10: ‘The man who commits adultery with another man’s wife, or who commits adultery with his neighbor’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress, shall be put to death. 
20:11: The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness; both shall surely be put to death, for they are guilty. 
20:12: If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both shall surely be put to death. They are impious, and therefore, guilty. 
20:13: If a man lies with a male as he lies with a woman, both committed an abomination. They shall be put to death, for they are guilty. 
20:14: If a man marries a woman and her mother, it is wickedness. They shall be burned with fire, both he and they, that there may be no wickedness among you. 
20:15: If a man mates with an animal, he shall surely be put to death, and you shall kill the animal. 
20:16: If a woman approaches any animal and mates with it, you shall kill the woman and the animal. They shall surely be put to death, for they are guilty. 
20:17: ‘If a man takes his sister, his father’s daughter or his mother’s daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a reproach. They shall be utterly destroyed in the presence of their people. He has uncovered his sister’s nakedness. They shall bear their guilt. 
20:18: If a man lies with a woman during her menstrual period, and uncovers her nakedness, he has exposed her flow, and she has uncovered the flow of her blood. Both shall be utterly destroyed from among their people. 
20:19: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister, nor your mother’s sister, for that would uncover his near of kin. They shall bear their guilt. 
20:20: If a man lies with his close relative, he has uncovered his relative’s nakedness. They shall die childless. 
20:21: If a man takes his brother’s wife, it is uncleanness. He has uncovered his brother’s nakedness. They shall be childless. 
20:22: ‘You shall therefore keep all My ordinances and all My judgments, and perform them, that the land, to which I am bringing you to dwell in, not be provoked at you. 
20:23: Also, you shall not walk in the ordinances of the nations I am casting out before you; for they commit all these things, and therefore I abhor them. 
20:24: But I said to you, “You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess, a land flowing with milk and honey.” I am the Lord your God, who separated you from all peoples. 
20:25: You shall therefore distinguish between clean animals and unclean, between unclean birds and clean, and you shall not make your souls abominable by animals or birds, or by any kind of living thing that creeps on the ground, which I separated from you as unclean. 
20:26: You shall be holy to Me, for I, the Lord your God, who separated you from all peoples for Myself, am holy. 
20:27: ‘A man or a woman who is a ventriloquist or a charmer shall surely be put to death; they shall stone them with stones, for they are guilty.’ ”

