18:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
18:2: “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them: ‘I am the Lord your God. 
18:3: According to the way of life in the land of Egypt, where you dwelt, you shall not do; and according to the way of life in the land of Canaan, where I bring you, you shall not do; nor shall you walk in their ordinances. 
18:4: You shall do My judgments and keep My ordinances, to walk in them: I am the Lord your God. 
18:5: You shall therefore keep all My ordinances and My judgments, and do these, which if a man does, he shall live by them; I am the Lord your God. 
18:6: None of you shall approach anyone who is near of kin to him, to uncover his nakedness: I am the Lord. 
18:7: The nakedness of your father or mother you shall not uncover. She is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
18:8: The nakedness of your father’s wife you shall not uncover; it is your father’s nakedness. 
18:9: The nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home or elsewhere, her nakedness you shall not uncover. 
18:10: The nakedness of your son’s daughter, or your daughter’s daughter, their nakedness you shall not uncover; for theirs is your own nakedness. 
18:11: The nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, begotten by your father—she is your sister—you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
18:12: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister; she is near of kin to your father. 
18:13: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, for she is near of kin to your mother. 
18:14: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother, and approach his wife; she is your aunt. 
18:15: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law—she is your son’s wife—you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
18:16: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife; it is your brother’s nakedness. 
18:17: You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter, nor shall you take her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover their nakedness. They are near of kin to her. It is impious. 
18:18: Nor shall you take a woman as a rival to her sister, to uncover her nakedness while the other is alive. 
18:19: ‘Also you shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness as long as she is in her menstrual period of uncleanness. 
18:20: Moreover, you shall not lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, to defile yourself with her. 
18:21: Furthermore, you shall not give your offspring to worship a ruler, nor shall you defile My holy name: I am the Lord. 
18:22: You shall not lie with a male as with a woman. It is an abomination. 
18:23: Nor shall you mate with any animal, to defile yourself with it. Nor shall any woman stand before an animal to mate with it. It is perversion. 
18:24: ‘Do not defile yourselves with any of these things; for by all these ways of life the nations are defiled, which I am casting out before your face. 
18:25: For the land is defiled, and on its account I am repaying them for their wrongdoing. Thus the land became vexed with those dwelling upon it. 
18:26: You shall therefore keep all My ordinances and My judgments, and shall not do any of these abominations, either any of your own nation or any resident alien who dwells among you 
18:27: (for the men of the land before you did all these abominations, and thus the land was defiled), 
18:28: that the land not be vexed with you in your defilement of it, as it was vexed with the nations before you. 
18:29: For whoever does any of these abominations, these souls shall be utterly destroyed from among their people. 
18:30: Therefore, you shall keep My ordinances, so as not to do any of these abominable customs, which were committed before you, and not to defile yourselves by them; for I am the Lord your God.’ ”

