10:1: Now Nadab and Abihu, Aaron’s sons, each took his censer and put fire in it, put incense on it, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which He had not commanded them. 
10:2: So fire went out from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. 
10:3: Then Moses said to Aaron: “This is what the Lord spoke, saying, ‘By those who come near Me, I shall be sanctified; and before all the congregation I shall be glorified.’ ” So Aaron was greatly distressed. 
10:4: Moses then called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, Aaron’s uncle, and said to them, “Come near, carry your brethren from the presence of the sanctuary outside the camp.” 
10:5: So they came near and carried them by their tunics outside the camp, as Moses said. 
10:6: Then Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons: “Do not uncover your heads, nor take off your garments, lest you die, and wrath come upon all the congregation. But let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning the Lord kindled. 
10:7: You shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of testimony, lest you die, for the anointing oil of the Lord is upon you.” So they did according to Moses’ word. 
10:8: Then the Lord spoke to Aaron, saying, 
10:9: “Do not drink wine and strong drink, you, nor your sons with you, when you go into the tabernacle of testimony, or when you approach the altar, lest you die (it shall be an ordinance forever throughout your generations), 
10:10: that you may distinguish between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean, 
10:11: and that you may teach the children of Israel all the ordinances, which the Lord spoke to them by the hand of Moses.” 
10:12: Then Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons who were left, “Take the grain offering that remains from the burnt offerings of the Lord, and eat it without leaven beside the altar; for it is most holy. 
10:13: You shall eat it in a holy place, because from the burnt offerings of the Lord, it belongs to you and your sons by ordinance; for thus I was commanded. 
10:14: The breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the choice portion, you shall eat in a clean place, you, your sons, and your household with you; because it was given to you and your sons by ordinance from the peace offerings of the children of Israel. 
10:15: The thigh of the choice portion and the breast of the wave offering, they shall bring with the burnt offerings of fat, to offer as a wave offering before the Lord; and it shall be yours and your sons’ and daughters’ with you, by an ordinance forever, as the Lord commanded Moses.” 
10:16: Then Moses made careful inquiry about the young goat of the sin offering, and there it was—burned up. So he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s remaining sons, saying, 
10:17: “Why have you not eaten the sin offering in a holy place, since it is most holy; and He gave this to you, to bear the guilt of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the Lord? 
10:18: For you did not bring its blood into the holy place; you personally should have eaten it in a holy place, as the Lord commanded me.” 
10:19: Then Aaron spoke to Moses, saying: “If they had offered their sin offering and whole burnt offerings today before the Lord, and these things happened to me, and I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been acceptable to the Lord?” 
10:20: So when Moses heard that, he was pleased.

