8:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
8:2: “Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments, the anointing oil, a young bull as the sin offering, two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread; 
8:3: and gather all the congregation together at the door of the tabernacle of testimony.” 
8:4: So Moses did as the Lord commanded him, and the congregation was gathered together at the door of the tabernacle of testimony. 
8:5: Then Moses said to the congregation: “This is the word the Lord commanded us to do.” 
8:6: So Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water. 
8:7: He put the tunic on him, girded him with the belt, clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod on him; and he girded him with the intricately woven band of the ephod, and with it tied the ephod on him. 
8:8: Then he put the breastplate on him, and he put the Urim and the Thummim in the breastplate. 
8:9: He also put the turban on his head; and on the turban, on its front, he put the golden plate, the holy crown, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
8:10: Moses then took the anointing oil, 
8:11: and he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, anointed the altar, and sanctified it, and all its utensils, and the laver and its base, to sanctify them. He also anointed the tabernacle, and everything in it, and sanctified it. 
8:12: Moses then poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron’s head, and anointed him, to sanctify him. 
8:13: After this, Moses brought Aaron’s sons and put tunics on them, girded them with the belts, and put hats on them, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
8:14: Then he brought the young bull for the sin offering; and Aaron and his sons put their hands on the head of the bull for the sin offering, 
8:15: and Moses killed it. Then he took the blood, and put some on the horns of the altar all around with his finger, and purified the altar. He poured the blood at the base of the altar, and sanctified it, to make atonement upon it. 
8:16: Moses then took all the fat on the entrails, the fatty lobe attached to the liver, and the two kidneys with their fat, and Moses offered them on the altar. 
8:17: But the young bull, its hide, its flesh, and its offal, he burned with fire outside the camp, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
8:18: Next, Moses brought the ram as the burnt offering. Aaron and his sons put their hands on the head of the ram, 
8:19: and Moses killed the ram. Then he poured the blood all around on the altar, 
8:20: and cut the ram into pieces; and he offered the head, the pieces, and the fat. 
8:21: Then he washed the stomach and the feet in water, and offered the whole ram on the altar. It was a whole burnt offering for a sweet aroma, a burnt offering to the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
8:22: After this, Moses brought the second ram, the ram of consecration. Then Aaron and his sons put their hands on the head of the ram, 
8:23: and Moses killed it. Also he took some of its blood, and put it on the tip of Aaron’s right ear, on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. 
8:24: Then Moses brought Aaron’s sons; and he put some of the blood on the tips of their right ears, on the thumbs of their right hands, and on the big toes of their right feet. Then he poured the blood all around on the altar. 
8:25: He took the fat and the fat tail, all the fat on the entrails, the fatty lobe attached to the liver, the two kidneys and their fat, and the right thigh; 
8:26: and from the basket of consecration before the Lord, he took one unleavened cake, a cake of bread anointed with oil, and one wafer, and put them on the fat and on the right thigh; 
8:27: and he put all these in Aaron’s hands and in his sons’ hands, and offered them as a choice portion before the Lord. 
8:28: Then Moses took them from their hands and offered them on the altar, for a whole burnt offering of consecration, which was a sweet aroma and a burnt offering to the Lord. 
8:29: Moses also took the breast, and removed it as a deposit from the ram of consecration before the Lord. It was Moses’ part, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
8:30: Moses then took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood on the altar, and sprinkled it on Aaron and his garments, and on his sons and their garments with him; and he sanctified Aaron and his garments, and his sons and their garments with him. 
8:31: After this, Moses said to Aaron and his sons, “Boil the flesh in the court of the tabernacle of testimony, in a holy place, and eat it there with the bread in the basket of consecration, as I was commanded, saying, ‘Aaron and his sons shall eat it.’ 
8:32: What remains of the flesh and the bread shall be burned with fire. 
8:33: You shall not go outside the door of the tabernacle of testimony for seven days, until the days of your consecration are fulfilled. For seven days he shall consecrate you. 
8:34: As the Lord did on this day, He commanded to do, to make atonement for you. 
8:35: Therefore you shall stay at the door of the tabernacle of testimony day and night for seven days, and keep the charge of the Lord, that you may not die; for the Lord God so commanded me.” 
8:36: So Aaron and his sons did all the words the Lord commanded Moses.

