1:1: Now the Lord called to Moses, and spoke to him from the tabernacle of testimony, saying, 
1:2: “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them; ‘If a man among you should offer gifts to the Lord from the cattle—the oxen or the sheep—you shall offer your gifts. 
1:3: If his gift should be a whole burnt offering from the oxen, he shall offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it at the door of the tabernacle of testimony as acceptable before the Lord. 
1:4: Then he shall put his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it will be accepted on his behalf to make atonement for him. 
1:5: He shall kill the young bull before the Lord; and the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall offer the blood and sprinkle the blood all around on the altar by the doors of the tabernacle of testimony. 
1:6: Then he shall skin the whole burnt offering and cut it into its pieces. 
1:7: The sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar, and lay the wood on the fire. 
1:8: Then the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall lay the parts, the head and the fat, upon the wood and fire on the altar; 
1:9: but he shall wash its entrails and its legs with water. The priest shall then put all of it on the altar as a burnt offering, a sacrifice for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
1:10: ‘If his gift to the Lord should be from the sheep—from the lambs or the kids—as a whole burnt offering, he shall offer a male without blemish, and put his hand on its head. 
1:11: He shall kill it on the north side of the altar before the Lord; and the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall sprinkle its blood all around on the altar. 
1:12: Then they shall cut it into its pieces, with its head and its fat; and the priests shall lay them upon the wood and fire on the altar; 
1:13: but he shall wash the entrails and the legs with water. Then the priest shall offer all of it, and put it on the altar as a burnt offering, a sacrifice for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
1:14: ‘But if you should offer a gift to the Lord from the birds for a burnt offering, he shall offer his gift from the turtle doves or young pigeons. 
1:15: The priest shall offer it on the altar, wring off its head, and put it on the altar; its blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar. 
1:16: Then he shall remove its crop with its feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east side, into the place for ashes. 
1:17: Then he shall split it at its wings, but shall not divide it; and the priest shall put it upon the wood and fire on the altar as a burnt offering, a sacrifice for a sweet aroma to the Lord.

