24:1: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
24:2: “Command the children of Israel to bring you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, to make the lamps burn continually. 
24:3: Outside the veil in the tabernacle of testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it burning from evening until morning before the Lord continually; it shall be an ordinance forever in your generations. 
24:4: Upon the pure lampstand, you shall burn the lamps before the Lord until morning. 
24:5: “You shall also take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it. Two-tenths of an ephah shall be in each cake. 
24:6: You shall set them as two deposits, six loaves in each deposit, on the pure table before the Lord. 
24:7: Then you shall put pure frankincense and salt on each deposit, that it may be on the bread for a memorial offering to the Lord. 
24:8: Every Sabbath day it shall be placed before the Lord continually, in the presence of the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant. 
24:9: It shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat these things in a holy place; for this is most holy to him from the things sacrificed to the Lord, as a perpetual ordinance.” 
24:10: Now the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and this Israelite woman’s son and a man of Israel fought each other in the camp. 
24:11: Then the Israelite woman’s son by pronouncing the Name, cursed; and so they brought him to Moses. (His mother’s name was Shelomith the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.) 
24:12: Then they placed him in custody, to make a decision regarding him through an ordinance of the Lord. 
24:13: Thus the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
24:14: “Take the one who cursed outside the camp; then let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him. 
24:15: Then you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying: ‘Whoever curses God shall bear his guilt. 
24:16: Let him who pronounces the Lord’s name be surely put to death. Let all the congregation of Israel stone him with stones, the resident alien as well as the native. Let him die when he pronounces the Lord’s name. 
24:17: Whoever strikes a man, and he dies, let him surely be put to death. 
24:18: Whoever strikes an animal, and it dies, let him compensate life for life. 
24:19: If a man causes disfigurement of his neighbor, as he has done, so shall it be done to him 
24:20: fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has caused disfigurement of a man, so shall it be done to him. 
24:21: Whoever strikes a man, and he dies, let him surely be put to death. 
24:22: You shall have the same judgment for what is right both for the resident alien and the native; for I am the Lord your God.’ ” 
24:23: Then Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they took outside the camp him who had cursed, and stoned him with stones. So the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses.

