17:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
17:2: “Speak to Aaron, his sons, and all the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘This is the thing the Lord commanded, saying, 
17:3: “Whatever man of the children of Israel, or resident aliens dwelling among them, kills a young bull, a sheep, or a goat in the camp, or kills it outside the camp, 
17:4: and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of testimony, to offer it as a whole burnt offering or a peace offering to the Lord, acceptable for a sweet aroma, and whatever man kills outside, and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of testimony, so as to offer it as a gift to the Lord before the Lord’s tabernacle, blood shall be reckoned to that man, for he has shed blood; and that man shall be utterly destroyed from among his people, 
17:5: that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices they kill in the fields to the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of testimony, to the priest, and offer them as peace offerings to the Lord. 
17:6: The priest shall pour the blood upon the altar all around before the Lord at the doors of the tabernacle of testimony, and offer the fat for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
17:7: “They shall no more offer their sacrifices to worthless things, after whom they prostituted themselves. This shall be an ordinance forever for you throughout your generations.’ ” 
17:8: “Also you shall say to them, ‘Whatever man of the children of Israel, or of the resident aliens who dwell among you, offers a whole burnt offering or sacrifice, 
17:9: and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of testimony, to offer it to the Lord, that man shall be utterly destroyed from among his people. 
17:10: ‘And whatever man of the children of Israel, or of the resident aliens dwelling among you, eats any blood, I will set My face against that soul who eats blood, and will utterly destroy him from among his people. 
17:11: For the life of all flesh is in its blood, and I give it to you upon the altar, to make atonement for your souls; for its blood makes atonement for the soul.’ 
17:12: “Therefore, I said to the children of Israel, ‘No one among you shall eat blood, nor shall any resident alien who dwells among you eat blood.’ 
17:13: “Whatever man of the children of Israel, or of the resident aliens dwelling among you, hunts and catches any animal or bird that may be eaten, he shall pour out its blood, and cover it with dirt; 
17:14: for the life of all flesh is its blood. Therefore, I said to the children of Israel, ‘You shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be utterly destroyed.’ 
17:15: “Every soul who eats what died naturally, or what was torn by wild animals, whether a native of your own country or a resident alien, he shall both wash his clothes, bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. Then he shall be clean. 
17:16: But if he does not both wash his body and bathe in water, he shall bear his guilt.”

