2:1: ‘Now if a soul should offer a gift for a grain offering to the Lord, his gift shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it, and put frankincense on it. 
2:2: He shall bring it to Aaron’s sons, the priests, one of whom shall take from it his handful of fine flour and oil with all the frankincense. Then the priest shall put it on the altar as a memorial, a sacrifice for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
2:3: The rest of the grain offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons. It is the most holy of the Lord’s sacrifices. 
2:4: But if you should offer a gift as a grain offering baked in the oven, a gift of fine flour to the Lord, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. 
2:5: But if your gift should be a grain offering fried in a pan, it shall be of fine flour, unleavened, and mixed with oil. 
2:6: You shall break it in pieces and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering to the Lord. 
2:7: If your gift should be a grain offering from the grate, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. 
2:8: You shall offer the grain offering made of these things to the Lord; and when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar. 
2:9: Then the priest shall take from the grain offering its memorial portion, and put it on the altar as a burnt offering, for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
2:10: But what is left of the grain offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons. It is the most holy of the Lord’s burnt offerings. 
2:11: No grain offering you offer to the Lord shall be made with leaven, for you shall burn no leaven or honey in any burnt offering to the Lord. 
2:12: As for a gift of first fruits, you shall offer them to the Lord, but they shall not be offered on the altar for a sweet aroma. 
2:13: Now every gift of your grain offering you shall season with salt; you shall not allow the salt of the Lord’s covenant to be lacking from your grain offerings. With every gift you shall offer salt to the Lord your God. 
2:14: If you should offer a grain offering of your first fruits to the Lord, you shall offer for the grain offering of your first fruits green heads of grain roasted on the fire, grain beaten from full heads for the Lord. Thus you shall offer your grain offering of first fruits. 
2:15: Then you shall put oil on it, and put frankincense on it. It is a grain offering. 
2:16: The priest shall then offer its memorial portion: its beaten grain and oil, with all the frankincense. It is a burnt offering to the Lord.

