6:1: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
6:2: “Command Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘Now this is the law of the whole burnt offering: The whole burnt offering shall be on the hearth upon the altar all night until morning, and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it; it shall not be put out. 
6:3: Then the priest shall put the linen trousers on his body; then he shall put on his linen garment, and take up the ashes of the whole burnt offering, which the fire consumed on the altar; and he shall put them beside the altar. 
6:4: He shall then take off his linen garment, put on another one, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. 
6:5: So the fire on the altar shall be burning; it shall not be put out. The priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and put the whole burnt offering on it; and he shall burn on it the fat of the peace offering. 
6:6: A fire shall always be burning on the altar; it shall never go out. 
6:7: ‘Now this is the law of the grain offering: The sons of Aaron shall offer it in front of the altar before the Lord. 
6:8: He shall take from it his handful of the fine flour of the grain offering, with its oil and frankincense, which is on the grain offering, and offer it on the altar of burnt offering, for a sweet aroma, a memorial to the Lord. 
6:9: Then Aaron and his sons shall eat what is left. It shall be eaten in a holy place, in the court of the tabernacle of testimony. 
6:10: It shall not be baked with leaven. I gave it to them as their portion of the Lord’s burnt offerings; it is most holy, like the sin offering and the trespass offering. 
6:11: All the males of the priests shall eat it. It shall be an ordinance forever in your generations concerning the Lord’s burnt offerings. Everyone who touches them shall be sanctified.’ ” 
6:12: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
6:13: “This is the gift of Aaron and his sons, which they shall offer to the Lord, on the day you anoint him: one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour as a daily grain offering, half of it in the morning and half in the evening. 
6:14: It shall be made in a frying pan with oil. When it is mixed, you shall bring it in. The baked pieces of the grain offering you shall offer for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
6:15: The anointed priest, who takes his place from among his sons, shall make it. It is an ordinance forever. It shall be wholly consumed. 
6:16: For every grain offering of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten.” 
6:17: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 
6:18: “Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘Now this is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the whole burnt offering is killed, they shall kill the sin offering before the Lord. It is most holy. 
6:19: The priest who offers it shall eat it. In a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of testimony. 
6:20: Everyone who touches its flesh shall be sanctified; and if some of its blood might have been sprinkled on any garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled, in a holy place. 
6:21: But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze pot, it shall be both scoured and rinsed in water. 
6:22: Every male among the priests shall eat it. It is most holy. 
6:23: But no sin offering, whose blood may have been brought into the tabernacle of testimony to make atonement in the holy place, shall be eaten. It shall be burned in the fire.

