23:1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
23:2: “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘The feasts of the Lord, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, these are My feasts. 
23:3: Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath rest, a holy convocation to the Lord. You shall do no work on it; it is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwellings. 
23:4: ‘These are the feasts to the Lord, holy convocations, which you shall proclaim at their appointed times. 
23:5: On the fourteenth day of the first month at twilight is the Pascha to the Lord. 
23:6: Then on the fifteenth day of the same month is the Feast of Unleavened Bread to the Lord; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. 
23:7: On the first day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no service work on it. 
23:8: But you shall offer a whole burnt offering to the Lord for seven days. The seventh day shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no service work.’ ” 
23:9: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
23:10: “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them: ‘When you come into the land I give you, and reap its harvest, you shall bring a sheaf of the first fruits from your harvest to the priest. 
23:11: He shall offer the sheaf before the Lord, to be accepted on your behalf; on the morning after the first day the priest shall offer it. 
23:12: Then you shall offer on that day, on which you offer the sheaf, a sheep of the first year, without blemish, as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. 
23:13: Its grain offering shall be two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, a sacrifice to the Lord, for a sweet aroma to the Lord; and its drink offering shall be of wine, one-fourth of a hin. 
23:14: You shall eat neither bread nor roasted fresh ears until the same day you have offered gifts to your God; it shall be an ordinance forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
23:15: ‘Then you shall count for yourselves from the morning following the Sabbath Day, from the day you brought the sheaf of the deposit, seven full weeks. 
23:16: Count fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath; then you shall offer a new grain offering to the Lord. 
23:17: You shall bring from your dwellings two deposit loaves, of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour. They shall be baked with leaven. They are first fruits to the Lord. 
23:18: Then you shall offer with the bread seven lambs of the first year, without blemish, one young bull, and two rams, without blemish. They shall be a whole burnt offering to the Lord, with their grain offering and drink offerings, a sacrifice for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
23:19: After this, you shall sacrifice one kid of the goats as a sin offering, and two lambs of the first year as a sacrifice of a peace offering, with the loaves of the first fruits. 
23:20: The priest shall deposit them with the loaves of the first fruits as a deposit offering before the Lord, with the two lambs. They shall be holy things to the Lord; and for the priest who presented them, his shall they be. 
23:21: Then you shall proclaim the same day as a holy convocation for you. You shall do no service work on it. It shall be an ordinance forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations. 
23:22: When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field when you reap, nor shall you gather any gleanings from your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the resident alien: I am the Lord your God.’ ” 
23:23: Again, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
23:24: “Speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall have a rest, a memorial of trumpets, a holy convocation for you. 
23:25: You shall do no service work on it, and you shall offer a whole burnt offering to the Lord.’ ” 
23:26: Moreover, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
23:27: “Also, the tenth day of this seventh month shall be the Day of Atonement. It shall be a holy convocation for you; you shall humble your souls, and offer a whole burnt offering to the Lord. 
23:28: And you shall do no work on that same day, for it is the Day of Atonement, to make atonement for you before the Lord your God. 
23:29: For any soul who is not humbled on that same day shall be utterly destroyed from among his people. 
23:30: Any soul who does any work on that same day, that soul shall be destroyed from among his people. 
23:31: You shall not do any work; this is an ordinance forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
23:32: It shall be a Sabbath of Sabbaths for you, and you shall humble your souls; from the ninth day of the month, from evening to evening, you shall celebrate your Sabbaths.” 
23:33: Again, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
23:34: “Speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the Feast of Tabernacles for seven days to the Lord. 
23:35: On the first day there shall be a holy convocation. You shall do no service work on it. 
23:36: For seven days you shall offer whole burnt offerings to the Lord. Then on the eighth day you shall have a holy convocation, and you shall offer whole burnt offerings to the Lord. It is the final day of the festival for you, and you shall do no service work on it. 
23:37: ‘These are the feasts to the Lord, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer whole burnt offerings to the Lord, whole burnt offerings and their grain and drink offerings, everything on its day 
23:38: besides the Sabbaths of the Lord, and besides your gifts, all your vows, and all your freewill offerings, which you give to the Lord. 
23:39: ‘Also on the fifteenth day of this seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruit of the land, you shall keep the feast to the Lord for seven days; on the first day there shall be a rest, and on the eighth day, a rest. 
23:40: And you shall take for yourselves on the first day the ripe fruit of a tree, leaves of palm trees, the branches of leafy trees, and the pure willows of the brook; and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days. 
23:41: You shall keep it as a feast to the Lord for seven days in the year. It shall be an ordinance forever in your generations. You shall celebrate it in the seventh month. 
23:42: You shall dwell in booths for seven days. All who are native Israelites shall dwell in booths, 
23:43: that your generations may know I made the children of Israel dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.’ ” 
23:44: So Moses declared to the children of Israel the feasts of the Lord.

