6:1: Now hear the word of the Lord. The Lord says: “Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice. 
6:2: Hear, O mountains, the judgment of the Lord, and you valleys, the foundations of the earth; for the Lord has a case against His people, and he will contend with Israel. 
6:3: O My people, what have I done to you? How have I grieved you? Answer Me! 
6:4: For I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and redeemed you from the house of bondage; and I sent you Moses, and Aaron, and Miriam. 
6:5: O My people, remember now what King Balak of Moab plotted against you, and what answer Balaam the son of Beor gave to him from the reeds as far as to Gilgal, that the righteousness of the Lord might be known.” 
6:6: How shall I come to understand the Lord, and devote myself to the Most High God? Shall I reach Him with burnt offerings? with year-old calves? 
6:7: Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams? or with a myriad of streams of oil? Should I give my firstborn for my ungodliness, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? 
6:8: He has shown you, O man, what is good. Or what does the Lord seek from you, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to be ready to walk with the Lord your God? 
6:9: the Lord’s voice shall be proclaimed in the city, and He shall save those who fear His name. Hear, O tribe, who will put the city in order? 
6:10: For is there not a fire there, and the house of the lawless storing up lawless treasures with insolent unrighteousness? 
6:11: Will the lawless be justified by a balance scale, or a bag of deceitful weights 
6:12: from which they accumulated their ungodly wealth? And those that dwell in the city have spoken lies and exalted themselves with their own mouth. 
6:13: Therefore I will begin to smite you; I will destroy you because of your sins. 
6:14: You shall eat but not be satisfied, and there will be darkness upon you, and he will depart without being noticed, and you will not be rescued; and all who do escape will be given over to the sword. 
6:15: You will sow, but you will not reap. You will press olives, but you will not anoint yourself with oil. And you will make wine, but you will not drink any of it, and the statues of my people will be utterly abolished. 
6:16: For you have kept the ordinances of Omri and done all the works of the house of Ahab. You walked in their counsels, so that I should deliver you over to complete destruction, and make your inhabitants into a hissing, and you will bear the reproach of the peoples.”

