7:1: Woe is me! For I have become like one harvesting stubble, like one gleaning small grapes after the vintage grapes are picked, but not finding for myself any cluster of first fruit to eat. Woe is me, O my soul! 
7:2: For the God-fearing man has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among the men. They all lie in wait, even unto blood, and each one grievously oppresses his neighbor. 
7:3: They prepare their hands for evil; the prince demands a gift, and the judge speaks flattering words; it is the desire of their soul. “Thus I shall take away 
7:4: their good things as the moth who eats away, and as one proceeding by the rule in the day of the watch. Alas! alas! the time of your vengeance is come; now shall be their lamentation. 
7:5: Do not trust in friends, nor put your hope in those who govern. Beware of your wife, and do not tell her anything. 
7:6: For a son dishonors his father, a daughter will rise up against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are all the people of his own house.” 
7:7: But I will look to the Lord. I will wait for God my Savior, for my God will hear me. 
7:8: Do not rejoice over me, O my enemy, for though I have fallen, yet will I arise, because even if I should sit in darkness, the Lord will be a light to me. 
7:9: I will endure the wrath of the Lord, for I sinned against Him, until He pleads my cause; for He will execute my judgment, and will bring me out into the light, and I will perceive His righteousness. 
7:10: And my enemy will see it, and he who says to me, “Where is the Lord your God?” will be clothed with shame. And my eyes will look upon him, and now he will be for trampling upon as mud in the streets. 
7:11: In the days when your bricks are being plastered—that day will be your destruction, and your ordinances will be abolished. 
7:12: In that day even your cities will be leveled to the ground and divided among the Assyrians; your fortified cities will be divided from Tyre as far as the River of Syria; it will be a day of flood and chaos. 
7:13: And the land will become totally desolate together with those dwelling in it, because of the fruit of their practices. 
7:14: Shepherd Your people with Your staff, the sheep of Your inheritance, those dwelling solitarily in the thicket in the midst of Carmel. They will feed in Bashan and in Gilead, as in days of old. 
7:15: And as in the days of your departure from the land of Egypt, you will see many wonders. 
7:16: The Gentiles will see and be ashamed of all of their might. They will cover their mouth with their hands, and their ears will become deaf. 
7:17: They shall lick the dust like serpents crawling on the earth; they will be confounded in their confinement and be amazed at the Lord our God, and they will be afraid of You. 
7:18: Who is a God like You, removing wrongdoings and passing over the ungodliness of the remnant of His inheritance? He does not keep His anger as a witness, for He delights in mercy. 
7:19: He will return and have compassion on us. He will subdue our transgressions, and all our sins will be cast into the depths of the sea. 
7:20: You will give truthfulness to Jacob and mercy to Abraham, as you swore to our ancestors from days of old.

