4:1: And it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord will be revealed. It will be raised up on the top of the mountains, and it will be exalted far above the hills, and peoples will hasten to it. 
4:2: And many nations will go there and say, “Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. They will teach us His ways, and we will walk in His paths.” For out of Zion the law shall go forth, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 
4:3: And He will judge between many peoples and rebuke strong nations afar off. They will beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into sickles. Nation shall no more lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. 
4:4: But everyone shall be at rest under his own vine and under his own fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord Almighty has spoken these things. 
4:5: For all the peoples shall walk each one his own way, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for ever and ever. 
4:6: “In that day,” says the Lord, “I shall gather her who has been broken, and I will welcome her who has been exiled, even those whom I have rejected. 
4:7: And I shall make her who has been broken into a remnant, and her that was rejected into a strong nation. So the Lord will reign over them in Mount Zion henceforth and forever. 
4:8: And you, O daughter of Zion, dark tower of the flock, on you it will come and enter in, even the former kingdom of Babylon to the daughter of Jerusalem.” 
4:9: And now, why have you experienced such evils? Was there no king in your midst? Or did your counsel perish? For your birth pangs have seized you as one in labor. 
4:10: Suffer birth pains and take courage, O daughter of Zion, and draw near like a woman giving birth; for now you will be exiled from the city, and you will abide in the flat open country, and you will have come as far off as Babylon; and from that place the Lord your God shall redeem you from the hand of your enemies. 
4:11: Now many nations have gathered against you saying, “We will rejoice, and our eyes will gaze upon Zion.” 
4:12: But they do not know the thoughts of the Lord nor perceive His counsel, for He gathered them like sheaves for the threshing floor. 
4:13: “Arise and thresh them, O daughter of Zion, for I shall make your horns iron, and I will make your hooves bronze. And you will cause the nations to melt away, and you will winnow many peoples. You will dedicate their abundance to the Lord and their strength to the Lord of all the earth. 
4:14: Now the daughter of Ephraim will be blockaded by a siege wall; for he ordered affliction against us, and they shall smite the tribes of Israel with a rod upon the cheek.”

