5:1: “And you, O Bethlehem, House of Ephrathah, though you are fewest in number among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me the One to be ruler of Israel. His goings forth were from in the beginning, even from everlasting.” 
5:2: Therefore He shall give them up until the appointed time for her to give birth, and then the remnant of their brothers will return to the sons of Israel. 
5:3: And He shall stand and see, and shepherd His flock in the strength of the Lord, and they will dwell in the glory of the name of the Lord their God, for now they will be magnified unto the ends of the earth. 
5:4: And she will have peace; for when the Assyrian comes into our land and goes up upon our country, then seven shepherds and eight attacks from men will be raised up against them. 
5:5: They will tend the Assyrian with a sword and the land of Nimrod in her trench. And He shall deliver you from the Assyrian should he come into your land, and should he come up over your borders. 
5:6: And the remnant of Jacob will be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, as dew falling from the Lord and as lambs in a field of grass, in order that none among the sons of men may assemble together nor resist. 
5:7: And the remnant of Jacob will be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, as a lion among the cattle in the forest, and as a young lion among a flock of sheep, which, whenever it passes through, seizes and carries off its prey, and there is none to rescue. 
5:8: But your hand will be exalted above those oppressing you, and all your enemies will be completely cut off. 
5:9: “And it shall come to pass in that day,” says the Lord, “I shall utterly destroy your horses from your midst and destroy your chariots. 
5:10: I shall utterly destroy the cities of your land and demolish all your strongholds. 
5:11: And I shall drive away your sorceries out of your hands, and there shall be no soothsayers among you. 
5:12: I shall utterly destroy your carved images and the sacred pillars from your midst, and you will no longer worship the work of your hands; 
5:13: and I shall cut off your sacred groves from your midst, and destroy your cities. 
5:14: And I shall exact vengeance on the nations with wrath and anger, among those who did not heed.”

