2:1: He is completely destroyed; he has been removed. The one being delivered from affliction has come up breathing in your presence. Watch the road, gird your loins, and be valiant in your strength! 
2:2: For the Lord has turned away the pride of Jacob, just as He did the pride of Israel, for the shakers have shaken them off and completely destroyed their branches. 
2:3: The weapons of their power from men—mocking mighty men with fire, the reins of their chariots in the day of their readiness, and their horsemen—shall be thrown into a state of confusion 
2:4: in the streets, and the chariots shall clash and become entangled with one another in the broad roads. Their appearance is as torches of fire and flashing lightening. 
2:5: And their great men will be remembered, and they will flee by day. They will be weak as they go on their way; they will hasten to the walls, and they will prepare their advance defenses. 
2:6: The gates of the rivers have been opened, and the palaces have fallen into ruin, 
2:7: and the foundation has been exposed. She has gone up, and her bondwomen were led away as doves moaning in their hearts. 
2:8: And as for Nineveh, her waters are as a pool of water, and fleeing away, they did not stand; there was no on paying attention. 
2:9: They were plundering the silver, they were plundering the gold—and there was no end of her treasures; they have been weighed down by all her precious things. 
2:10: There is thrusting, shaking and tumult, and breaking of hearts and weakening of knees, agony in every loin, and the face of each one appearing as the blackening of a pot. 
2:11: Where is the dwelling place of the lions and the feeding place for her cubs? Where did the lion go, that the lion’s cub should go where there is none to scare him away? 
2:12: The lion carried off sufficient prey for his cubs, and he strangled prey for his lions and filled his lair with prey, even his dwelling-place of plunder. “
2:13: Behold, I am against you,” says the Lord Almighty, “I shall burn up your multitude in smoke, and the sword will devour your lions. I shall utterly destroy your prey from the land, and your deeds shall never again be heard.”

