1:1: The burden against Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite. 
1:2: God is jealous, and the Lord is an avenger; the Lord is avenging with fury; the Lord takes vengeance on His adversaries and drives out His enemies. 
1:3: The Lord is patient and His power is great, but the Lord will not acquit the guilty. His way is in destruction and in a whirlwind; the clouds are the dust of His feet. 
1:4: He threatens the sea and makes it dry, and he dries up all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel have diminished, and the flowers of Lebanon have died out. 
1:5: By Him the mountains are shaken and the hills quake, and the earth heaves at His presence—the whole earth and all who dwell in it. 
1:6: Who can stand before His wrath? Who can withstand the fierceness of His anger? His fury melts away ruling powers, and He shatters the rocks into pieces. 
1:7: The Lord is merciful to those who wait on Him in the day of affliction, and He knows those who reverence Him. 
1:8: For with an overwhelming flood He shall make an end to those rising up, and darkness will pursue His enemies. 
1:9: What do you plot against the Lord? He shall bring about a complete end to it; He will not twice punish with affliction for the same thing, 
1:10: for the enemy shall be laid bare even to the foundations, and consumed as twisted yew, even as fully dried stubble. 
1:11: From out of you shall come forth a plot against the Lord, counseling things hostile to Him. 
1:12: Thus says the Lord who rules over many waters: “In the same manner you will be torn apart, and the report of you will no longer be heard. 
1:13: And now I will break his rod from off you, and I will break your bonds. 
1:14: The Lord shall Himself give a command concerning you: “Your name shall be perpetuated no longer. I will utterly destroy the graven and molten images out of the house of your god. I shall dig your grave, and that quickly!” 
1:15: Behold, on the mountains the feet of him that brings good tidings and proclaims peace. O Judah, celebrate your feasts, pay your vows; for in no way shall they pass through you as one who is beaten.

