12:1: Now Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman, whom he married; for he married an Ethiopian woman. 
12:2: So they said, “Has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses? Has He not spoken through us also?” But the Lord heard it. 
12:3: (Now the man Moses was very meek, more than all men on the face of the earth.) 
12:4: Suddenly the Lord said to Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, “Come out, you three, to the tabernacle of testimony.” So the three came out to the tabernacle of testimony. 
12:5: Then the Lord descended in the pillar of cloud, and stood upon the door of the tabernacle of testimony; and He called Aaron and Miriam, and both went forward. 
12:6: Then He said, “Hear now My words, Should a prophet of yours belong to the Lord, I would make Myself known to him in a vision; I would speak to him in a dream. 
12:7: Not so with My servant Moses; He is faithful in all My house. 
12:8: I speak with him face to face, even in visible form, and not in obscure sayings; and he saw the Lord’s glory. Why then were you not afraid to speak against My servant Moses?” 
12:9: So the Lord’s anger was aroused against them, and He departed. 
12:10: But when the cloud departed from the tabernacle, suddenly Miriam became leprous, as white as snow. Then Aaron turned toward Miriam, and there she was, a leper. 
12:11: So Aaron said to Moses, “Oh, my lord, I beg you, do not lay an extra charge of sin on us, because we were ignorant, and did not know we sinned. 
12:12: Do not let her be as one dead, like a miscarriage with its flesh half consumed.” 
12:13: So Moses cried out to the Lord, saying, “Heal her, I beg you, O God.” 
12:14: Then the Lord said to Moses, “If her father had but spit in her face, would she not be shamed seven days? Let her be shut out of the camp seven days, and afterward let her enter.” 
12:15: So Miriam was shut out of the camp seven days, and the people did not break camp till Miriam was cleansed. 
12:16: After this, the people broke camp at Hazeroth, and camped in the Desert of Paran.

