22:1: Now the children of Israel broke camp, and camped west of Moab by the Jordan across from Jericho. 
22:2: So when Balak the son of Zippor saw all Israel did to the Amorites, 
22:3: and Moab was exceedingly afraid of the people, because they were many, and Moab was irritated because of the children of Israel, 
22:4: then Moab said to the elders of Midian, “Now this congregation will lick up everything around us, as a young bull licks up the grass of the field.” Now Balak the son of Zippor was king of the Moabites at that time. 
22:5: Then he sent ambassadors to Balaam the son of Beor at Pethor, which is near the River in the land of the sons of his people, to call him, saying, “Look, a people came from Egypt. See, they cover the face of the earth, and are settling next to me. 
22:6: Therefore, come at once, and curse this people for me, for they are stronger than we. If we would be able to strike some of them, then I could drive them out of the land, for I know he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed.” 
22:7: So the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with their divinations in their hand; and they came to Balaam, and spoke to him the words of Balak. 
22:8: Then he said to them, “Lodge here tonight, and I will bring back to you whatever words the Lord may speak to me.” So the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam. 
22:9: God then came to Balaam and said to him, “Who are these men with you?” 
22:10: So Balaam said to God, “Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, sent to me, saying, 
22:11: ‘Look, a people came out of Egypt, and they cover the face of the earth, and are settling next to me. Therefore, come at once, and curse them for me; perhaps I shall be able to strike them, and drive them from the land.’ ” 
22:12: Then God said to Balaam, “You shall not go with them; neither shall you curse the people, for they are blessed.” 
22:13: So Balaam rose in the morning and said to the rulers of Balak, “Return to your Lord, for God is not allowing me to go with you.” 
22:14: Therefore, the rulers of Moab rose and went to Balak, and said, “Balaam is unwilling to come with us.” 
22:15: Balak yet again sent rulers, more numerous and more honorable than these. 
22:16: When they came to Balaam, they said to him, “Thus says Balak the son of Zippor: ‘I beg of you not to hesitate in coming to me; 
22:17: for I will certainly honor you greatly, and I will do whatever you say. Therefore come and curse this people for me.’ ” 
22:18: Then Balaam answered and said to the rulers of Balak, “Though Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I could not go beyond the word of the Lord God, to make it little or great in my mind. 
22:19: Now therefore, stay here tonight, so I may know what more the Lord will say to me.” 
22:20: Thus God came to Balaam at night and said to him, “If these men are present to summon you, rise and follow them; but the word I speak to you that you shall do.” 
22:21: So Balaam rose in the morning, saddled his donkey, and went with the rulers of Moab. 
22:22: Then God was very angry because he went, and the Angel of God stationed Himself to divert him from his purpose. Now he was riding on his donkey, and his two servants were with him. 
22:23: When the donkey saw the Angel of God standing in the way with His drawn sword in His hand, the donkey turned aside out of the way, and went into the field. So Balaam struck the donkey with his staff to turn her back onto the road. 
22:24: Then the Angel of God stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, with a wall on this side and a wall on that side. 
22:25: Now when the donkey saw the Angel of God, she pushed herself against the wall, and crushed Balaam’s foot; so he struck her again. 
22:26: Then the Angel of God went and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left. 
22:27: So when the donkey saw the Angel of God, she lay down under Balaam; and Balaam became angry, and struck the donkey with his staff. 
22:28: Then God opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, “What have I done to you, that you struck me this third time?” 
22:29: Balaam then said to the donkey, “Because you abused me. I wish there were a sword in my hand, for now I would kill you!” 
22:30: So the donkey said to Balaam, “Am I not your donkey, on which you rode from your youth to this very day? Did I ever show such utter disregard for you?” He replied, “No.” 
22:31: Then God opened Balaam’s eyes, and he saw the Angel of the Lord standing in the way with His drawn sword in His hand; and he bowed and worshiped. 
22:32: The Angel of God then said to him, “Why did you strike your donkey a third time? Behold, I came out as your adversary, because your way was not acceptable before me. 
22:33: So when the donkey saw Me, she turned aside from Me this third time. If she had not turned aside from Me, surely I would have killed you by now, and let her live.” 
22:34: Then Balaam said to the Angel of the Lord, “I sinned, for I did not know You met me as an adversary on the road. Now therefore, if my way is not acceptable to You, I will turn back.” 
22:35: The Angel of God then said to Balaam, “Go with the men, but only the word I may speak to you, this you must be careful to speak.” So Balaam went with the rulers of Balak. 
22:36: Now when Balak heard Balaam was coming, he went out to meet him at the city of Moab, which is on the borders of the Arnon, the boundaries of his territory. 
22:37: Then Balak said to Balaam, “Did I not earnestly send to summon you? Why did you not come to me? Am I not actually able to honor you?” 
22:38: Balaam then said to Balak, “Look, I did come to you. Shall I now be able to say anything? Whatever word God may put in my mouth, this I must speak.” 
22:39: So Balaam went with Balak, and they came to unwalled encampments. 
22:40: Then Balak sacrificed sheep and young bulls, and he sent some to Balaam and to the rulers with him. 
22:41: When morning came, Balak took Balaam, and brought him up to the pillar of Baal; and he showed him part of the people from there.

