7:1: Now it came to pass, on the day Moses finished setting up the tabernacle, he anointed and sanctified it and all its vessels, and the altar and all its vessels; thus he anointed and sanctified these things. 
7:2: Then the rulers of Israel, the twelve rulers of their fathers’ houses, who were the rulers of the tribes and were in charge of the census, brought gifts. 
7:3: They brought their gifts before the Lord: six covered carts and twelve oxen, a cart for every two of the rulers, and for each one a young bull; and they presented them before the tabernacle. 
7:4: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
7:5: “Receive these things from them, so they may be used in doing the works of liturgical service in the tabernacle of testimony; and you shall give these things to the Levites, to every man according to his liturgical service.” 
7:6: Thus Moses took the carts and the oxen, and gave these things to the Levites. 
7:7: Two carts and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their liturgical service; 
7:8: and four carts and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their liturgical service, under the authority of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
7:9: But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because their liturgical service had to do with the holy place, which they carried on their shoulders. 
7:10: Now the rulers brought their gifts for the dedication of the altar on the day it was anointed; so the rulers brought their gift before the altar. 
7:11: For the Lord said to Moses, “They shall bring their gifts, one ruler each day, for the dedication of the altar.” 
7:12: So the one who brought his gift on the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, ruler of the tribe of Judah. 
7:13: The gift he brought was one silver bowl; its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:14: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:15: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:16: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:17: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
7:18: On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, ruler of Issachar, brought his gift. 
7:19: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:20: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:21: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:22: and one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:23: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
7:24: On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, ruler of the children of Zebulun, brought his gift. 
7:25: The gift he brought was one silver bowl; its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:26: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:27: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:28: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:29: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Eliab the son of Helon. 
7:30: On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, ruler of the children of Reuben, brought his gift. 
7:31: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:32: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:33: one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:34: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:35: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
7:36: On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, ruler of the children of Simeon, brought his gift. 
7:37: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:38: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:39: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:40: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:41: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
7:42: On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, ruler of the children of Gad, brought his gift. 
7:43: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:44: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:45: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:46: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:47: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Eliasaph the son of Deuel. 
7:48: On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, ruler of the children of Ephraim, brought his gift. 
7:49: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:50: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:51: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:52: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:53: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
7:54: On the eighth day Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, ruler of the children of Manasseh, brought his gift. 
7:55: The gift he brought was one silver bowl; its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:56: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:57: one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:58: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:59: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
7:60: On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, ruler of the children of Benjamin, brought his gift. 
7:61: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:62: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:63: one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:64: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:65: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
7:66: On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, ruler of the children of Dan, brought his gift. 
7:67: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:68: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:69: one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:70: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:71: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
7:72: On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, ruler of the children of Asher, brought his gift. 
7:73: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:74: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:75: one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:76: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:77: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the gift of Pagiel the son of Ocran. 
7:78: On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, ruler of the children of Naphtali, brought his gift. 
7:79: The gift he brought was one silver bowl, its weight was one hundred and thirty shekels, and one silver cup of seventy shekels, according to the holy shekel, both of them full of fine flour prepared with oil for a grain offering; 
7:80: one gold censer of ten shekels, full of incense; 
7:81: one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a whole burnt offering; 
7:82: one male kid from the goats for a sin offering; 
7:83: and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two young heifers, five rams, five male goats, and five ewe lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan. 
7:84: This was the dedication gift for the altar from the rulers of Israel, the day it was anointed: twelve silver bowls, twelve silver cups, and twelve gold censers. 
7:85: Each silver bowl weighed one hundred and thirty shekels and each cup seventy shekels. All the silver of the vessels weighed two thousand four hundred shekels, according to the holy shekel. 
7:86: The twelve gold censers, full of incense, weighed ten shekels apiece, according to the holy shekel; all the gold of the censers weighed one hundred and twenty shekels. 
7:87: All the oxen for the whole burnt offering were twelve young bulls, the rams twelve, the male lambs in their first year twelve, with their grain offering, and the male kids from the goats for a sin offering twelve. 
7:88: So all the oxen for the sacrifice of peace offerings were twenty-four young heifers, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, and the ewe lambs in their first year sixty. This was the dedication gift for the altar after it was consecrated and anointed. 
7:89: Now when Moses went into the tabernacle of testimony to speak with Him, he heard the voice of Lord speaking to him from above the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim; thus He spoke to him.

