26:1: Now it came to pass after the plague, the Lord spoke to Moses and Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying, 
26:2: “Take a census of all the congregation of the sons of Israel from twenty years old and above, by their fathers’ houses, all able to go to war in Israel.” 
26:3: So Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the Araboth of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho, saying, 
26:4: “Take a census from twenty years old and above, in the manner the Lord commanded Moses.” Now the sons of Israel who came out of Egypt were: 
26:5: Reuben the firstborn of Israel. The sons of Reuben were Enoch and the tribe of Enochites; Pallu and the tribe of the Palluites; 
26:6: Hezron and the tribe of the Hezronites; Carmi and the tribe of the Carmiites. 
26:7: These are the tribes of Reuben, and their census was forty-three thousand seven hundred thirty. 
26:8: Now the son of Pallu was Eliab. 
26:9: The sons of Eliab were Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. These were the ones chosen by the congregation to form a coalition against Moses and Aaron in the company of Korah, in their revolt against the Lord; 
26:10: and the earth opening its mouth swallowed them and Korah in the death of his company, when fire devoured two hundred fifty men; and they became a sign. 
26:11: But the sons of Korah did not die. 
26:12: The sons of Simeon and the tribe of the sons of Simeon were: Nemuel and the tribe of the Nemuelites; and Jamin and the tribe of the Jaminites; and Jachin and the tribe of the Jachinites; 
26:13: and Zerah and the tribe of the Zerahites; and Shaul, the tribe of the Shaulites. 
26:14: These are the tribes of the Simeonites, and their census was twenty-two thousand two hundred. 
26:15: The sons of Judah were Er and Onan; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. 
26:16: After these, Judah’s sons according to their tribes were Shelah and the tribe of the Shelahites; and Perez and the tribe of the Perezites; and Zerah and the tribe and the tribe of the Zerahites. 
26:17: Now the sons of Perez were Hezron and the tribe of the Hezronites; and Hamul and the tribe of the Hamulites. 
26:18: These are the tribes of Judah according to their census: seventy-six thousand five hundred. 
26:19: The sons of Issachar according to their tribes were: Tola and the tribe of the Tolaites; and Puah and the tribe of the Puahites; 
26:20: and Jashub and the tribe of the Jashubites; and Shimron and the tribe of the Shimronites. 
26:21: These are the tribes of Issachar from their census: sixty-four thousand three hundred. 
26:22: The sons of Zebulun according to their tribes were: Sered and the tribe of the Seredites; and Elon and the tribe of the Elonites; and Jahleel and the tribe of the Jahleelites. 
26:23: These are the tribes of Zebulun from their census: sixty thousand five hundred. 
26:24: The sons of Gad according to their tribes were Zephon and the tribe of the Zephonites; and Haggi and the tribe of the Haggiites; and Shuni and the tribe of the Shuniites; 
26:25: and Ozni and the tribe of the Ozniites; and Addi and the tribe of the Addiites; 
26:26: and Arod and the tribe of the Arodites; and Areli and the tribe of the Areliites. 
26:27: These are the tribes of the sons of Gad from their census: forty thousand five hundred. 
26:28: The sons of Asher according to their tribes were Jimna and the tribe of the Jimnaites; Jesui and the tribe of the Jesuiites; and Beriah and the tribe of the Beriahites; 
26:29: and Heber and the tribe of the Heberites; and Malchiel and the tribe of the Malchielites. 
26:30: Now the name of Asher’s daughter was Sara. 
26:31: These are the tribes of Asher from their census: fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
26:32: The sons of Joseph according to their tribes were Manasseh and Ephraim. 
26:33: The son of Manasseh was Machir and the tribe of the Machirites; and Machir begot Gilead and by Gilead the tribe of the Gileadites. 
26:34: Now these are the sons of Gilead: Jeezer and the tribe of the Jeezerites; and Helek and the family of the Helekites; 
26:35: and Asriel and the tribe of the Asrielites; and Shechem and the tribe of the Shechemites; 
26:36: and Shemida and the tribe of the Shemidaites; and Hepher and the tribe of the Hepherites. 
26:37: Now Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
26:38: These are the tribes of Manasseh from their census: fifty-two thousand seven hundred. 
26:39: Now these are the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah and the tribe of the Shuthelahites; and Tahan and the tribe of the Tahanites. 
26:40: Now these are the sons of Shuthelah: Eran and the tribe of the Eranites. 
26:41: These are the tribes of the of sons of Ephraim from their census: thirty-two thousand five hundred. These tribes are the sons of Joseph according to their tribes. 
26:42: The sons of Benjamin according to their tribes were: Bela and the tribe of the Belaites; and Ashbel and the tribe of the Ashbelites; and Ahiram and the family of the Ahiramites; 
26:43: and Shupham and the tribe of the Shuphamites. 
26:44: Now the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: Ard and the tribe of the Ardites; and Naaman and the tribe of the Naamanites. 
26:45: These are the sons of Benjamin according to their tribes from their census: forty-five thousand six hundred. 
26:46: This is the son of Dan according to his tribe: Shuham and the tribe of the Shuhamites. This is the tribe of Dan according to Shuham’s tribe. 
26:47: The entire tribe of the Shuhamites from their census was sixty-four thousand four hundred. 
26:48: The sons of Naphtali according to their tribes were: Jahzeel and the tribe of the Jahzeelites; and Guni and the tribe of the Guniites; 
26:49: and Jezer and the tribe of the Jezerites; and Shillem and the family of the Shillemites. 
26:50: These are the tribes of Naphtali from their census: forty-five thousand four hundred. 
26:51: This is the census of the sons of Israel: six hundred one thousand seven hundred thirty. 
26:52: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying; 
26:53: “To these the land shall be divided as an inheritance based on the number of names. 
26:54: To a large tribe you shall give a larger inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a smaller inheritance. Each shall be given its inheritance based on its census. 
26:55: But the land shall be divided by lot; they shall inherit according to the names of the tribes of their fathers. 
26:56: By allotment their inheritance shall be divided between the larger and the smaller.” 
26:57: Now the sons of Levi according to their tribes were: Gershon and the tribe of the Gershonites; and Kohath and the tribe of the Kohathites; and Merari and the tribe of the Merariites. 
26:58: These are the tribes of the sons of Levi: the tribe of the Libniites, the tribe of the Hebronites, the tribe of the Korahites, and the tribe of the Mushites. Now Kohath begot Amram. 
26:59: The name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt; and to Amram she bore Aaron and Moses and their sister Miriam. 
26:60: To Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
26:61: But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before the Lord in the Sinai Desert. 
26:62: Now based on their census they numbered twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and above; for a census was not taken of them among the other sons of Israel, because there was no allotment given to them among the sons of Israel. 
26:63: This is the census of Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in Araboth of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho. 
26:64: But among these, there was not a man numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest when they took a census of the sons of Israel in the Sinai Desert. 
26:65: For the Lord said of them, “They shall surely die in the desert.” So there was not left a man of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.

