15:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
15:2: “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘When you come into the land you are to inhabit, which I am giving to you, 
15:3: and you make a whole burnt offering to the Lord, a whole burnt offering or a sacrifice, to make a great vow or a freewill offering, or in your feasts, to make a sweet aroma to the Lord, from the oxen or the sheep, 
15:4: then he who brings his gifts to the Lord shall bring a grain offering of one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour prepared with one-fourth of a hin of oil; 
15:5: and one-fourth of a hin of wine as a drink offering you shall offer with the whole burnt offering or the sacrifice, and for each male lamb you shall offer the same amounts, a burnt offering as a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
15:6: Or for a ram, when you offer it either as a whole burnt offering or a sacrifice, you shall offer with it a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour prepared with one-third of a hin of oil; 
15:7: and as a drink offering you shall offer one-third of a hin of wine as a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
15:8: Now if from the oxen you offer a whole burnt offering or a sacrifice, to make a great vow, or a peace offering to the Lord, 
15:9: then one shall offer with the young bull a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour, prepared with half a hin of oil; 
15:10: and you shall bring as the drink offering half a hin of wine as a burnt offering, a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
15:11: ‘Thus you shall do for each young bull, for each ram, or for each male lamb from the sheep or the goats. 
15:12: According to the number you offer, so you shall do with each one according to their number. 
15:13: All native-born shall do these things in this manner, in presenting a burnt offering for a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
15:14: Now if a resident alien should come in among you in your land, or whoever may be among you in your generations, and he would offer a burnt offering as a sweet aroma to the Lord, thus in the manner you offer, so shall the congregation offer to the Lord. 
15:15: There shall be one law for you and for the resident alien who dwells among you, a perpetual law throughout your generations; as you are, so shall the resident alien be before the Lord. 
15:16: There shall be one law and one ordinance for you and for the resident alien who dwells among you.’ ” 
15:17: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
15:18: “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘When you come into the land, into which I bring you, 
15:19: then it will be, when you eat from the bread of the land, that you shall take away the choice portion for the Lord. 
15:20: You shall separate the choice portion of your bread as the first fruits of the dough, as a choice portion from the threshing floor; thus you shall separate it 
15:21: as the first fruits of your dough, and you shall give to the Lord the choice portion throughout your generations. 
15:22: ‘Now when you utterly fail, and do not do all these commandments the Lord spoke to Moses 
15:23: as the Lord ordered you by the hand of Moses, from the day the Lord ordered you and onward throughout your generations 
15:24: then it will be, if it happened involuntarily out of sight of the congregation, the whole congregation shall offer one young bull without blemish from the oxen for a whole burnt offering, for a sweet aroma to the Lord, with its grain offering and its drink offering, according to the ordinance, and one male kid from the goats for a sin offering. 
15:25: So the priest shall make atonement for the whole congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be remitted them, for it was involuntary; they shall bring their gift, a burnt offering to the Lord, as their sin offering before the Lord, concerning their involuntary sin. 
15:26: So it shall be remitted for the whole congregation of the children of Israel and the resident alien who dwells among them, because all the people did it involuntarily. 
15:27: Now if a soul should sin involuntarily, he shall bring a female goat in its first year for a sin offering. 
15:28: So the priest shall make atonement for the soul who acts involuntarily, and sins involuntarily before the Lord, to make atonement for him. 
15:29: As for anyone who may have acted involuntarily, there shall be one law, both for the native-born among the children of Israel and for the resident alien who dwells among them. 
15:30: But the soul who may do something with a hand of arrogance, whether he is native-born or a resident alien, that one is provoking God; and he shall be utterly destroyed from among His people. 
15:31: Because he despised the word of the Lord, and broke His commandments, that soul shall be destroyed; his guilt shall be upon him.’ ” 
15:32: Now while the children of Israel were in the desert, they found a man gathering wood on the Sabbath Day. 
15:33: So those who found him gathering wood on the Sabbath Day brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel. 
15:34: They put him under guard, because they had not decided what to do with him. 
15:35: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, “Let the man be surely put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones.” 
15:36: So, as the Lord ordered Moses, all the congregation brought him outside the camp, and stoned him with stones. 
15:37: Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
15:38: “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them to make tassels for themselves on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue thread in the tassels of the corners. 
15:39: Then it shall be, you shall have the tassels; and you shall look upon these, and remember all the commandments of the Lord and do them; and you shall not turn aside after your minds and your eyes by which you prostitute yourselves, 
15:40: and may remember and do all My commandments, and be holy for your God. 
15:41: I am the Lord your God, who brings you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the Lord your God.”

