1:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses in the Wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of testimony, on the first day of the second month, in the second year, after they came out of the land of Egypt, saying, 
1:2: “Take a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel, and according to their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male 
1:3: from twenty years old and above all who go out with the army of Israel. You and Aaron shall number them by their armies. 
1:4: With you there shall be each man according to the tribe of each ruler and their fathers’ houses. 
1:5: These are the names of the men who shall stand with you: from Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur; 
1:6: from Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai; 
1:7: from Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab; 
1:8: from Issachar, Nethanel the son of Zuar; 
1:9: from Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon; 
1:10: from the sons of Joseph: from Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud; from Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur; 
1:11: from Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni; 
1:12: from Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai; 
1:13: from Asher, Pagiel the son of Ocran; 
1:14: from Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel; 
1:15: from Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan.” 
1:16: These were chosen from the congregation, rulers of their fathers’ tribes and chiliarchs in Israel. 
1:17: Then Moses and Aaron took these men who had been mentioned by name, 
1:18: and they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month, in the second year; and they registered their ancestry by families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and above, every male according to their head count, 
1:19: in the manner the Lord commanded Moses. So he numbered them in the Wilderness of Sinai. 
1:20: Now there were the children of Reuben, Israel’s firstborn son, and their families according to their tribes by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:21: Their census from the tribe of Reuben, was forty-six thousand five hundred. 
1:22: There were the children of Simeon, and their families according to their tribes by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:23: Their census from the tribe of Simeon was fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
1:24: There were the children of Judah, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:25: Their census from the tribe of Judah was seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
1:26: There were the children of Issachar, and their families by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:27: Their census from the tribe of Issachar was fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
1:28: There were the children of Zebulun, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:29: Their census from the tribe of Zebulun was fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
1:30: There were the children of Joseph: the children of Ephraim, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:31: Their census from the tribe of Ephraim was forty thousand five hundred; 
1:32: and the children of Manasseh, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:33: Their census from the tribe of Manasseh was thirty-two thousand two hundred. 
1:34: There were the children of Benjamin, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:35: Their census from the tribe of Benjamin was thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
1:36: There were the children of Gad, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:37: Their census from the tribe of Gad was forty-five thousand six hundred fifty. 
1:38: There were the children of Dan, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:39: Their census from the tribe of Dan was sixty two thousand seven hundred. 
1:40: There were the children of Asher, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:41: Their census from the tribe of Asher was forty-one thousand five hundred. 
1:42: There were the children of Naphtali, and their families by their fathers’ houses, and according to the number of names by their head count, every male from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out with the army. 
1:43: Their census from the tribe of Naphtali was fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
1:44: This is the census taken by Moses and Aaron, along with the twelve rulers of Israel and their paternal households, each man according to his tribe. 
1:45: So the entire census of the children of Israel, with their armies, and from twenty years old and above all who were able to go out to war in Israel 
1:46: was six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty. 
1:47: But the Levites from their father’s tribe were not numbered with the children of Israel, 
1:48: for the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
1:49: “See to it that the tribe of Levi is not numbered, nor take a census of them among the children of Israel; 
1:50: but you shall appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of testimony, over all its furnishings, and over all things that belong to it; they shall carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings; they shall minister liturgically in the tabernacle, and camp around it. 
1:51: When the tabernacle is to move, the Levites shall dismantle it; and when the tabernacle is to make camp, the Levites shall set it up. The foreigner who comes near, let him be put to death. 
1:52: But the children of Israel shall make camp with their armies, each man according to his own rank, and each man according to his own regiment. 
1:53: However, the Levites shall camp around the tabernacle of testimony in the Lord’s presence, so there may be no sin among the children of Israel; and the Levites themselves shall guard the tabernacle of testimony.” 
1:54: Thus the children of Israel did according to all the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.

