28:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
28:2: “Command the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘My gifts, My presents, My burnt offerings, you shall take care to offer to Me as a sweet aroma in My feasts.’ 
28:3: So you shall say to them, ‘These are My burnt offerings you shall offer daily to the Lord: two unblemished male lambs in their first year, as a whole burnt offering perpetually. 
28:4: The one male lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other male lamb you shall offer in the evening; 
28:5: and you shall offer one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour as a grain offering, mixed with one-fourth of a hin of oil. 
28:6: This shall be a perpetual whole burnt offering, which came into being at Mount Sinai, as a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
28:7: Its drink offering shall be one-fourth of a hin for each male lamb; in the holy place you shall pour out the intoxicant as a drink offering to the Lord. 
28:8: The second male lamb you shall offer toward evening; and you shall offer it according to its grain offering and drink offering, as a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
28:9: ‘Then on the Sabbath Day you shall offer two unblemished male lambs in their first year, and two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with oil, for a grain offering, with its drink offering. 
28:10: This is the whole burnt offering for each and every Sabbath, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with its drink offering. 
28:11: ‘On the first of every month, you shall offer a whole burnt offering to the Lord: two young bulls from the oxen, one ram, and seven unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
28:12: and a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with oil, for each young bull, and a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with oil, for the one ram, 
28:13: and a grain offering of one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with oil, for each male lamb, as a burnt offering of sweet aroma to the Lord. 
28:14: Their drink offering shall be half a hin of wine for each young bull, one-third of a hin for the one ram, and one-fourth of a hin for each male lamb. This is the whole burnt offering for the first of every month throughout the months of each year. 
28:15: Also one young male of the goats as a sin offering to the Lord shall be offered, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with its drink offering. 
28:16: ‘Then on the fourteenth day of the first month is the Lord’s Pascha. 
28:17: Then on the fifteenth day of this month is a feast: unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days; 
28:18: and the first day there shall be a holy convocation. You shall do no service work. 
28:19: So you shall offer whole burnt offerings: two young bulls from the oxen, one ram and seven male lambs—be sure they are unblemished—as burnt offerings to the Lord. 
28:20: Now you shall offer their grain offering of fine flour, mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the one ram, 
28:21: and one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs. 
28:22: You shall also offer one young male goat as a sin offering, to make atonement for you. 
28:23: You shall offer these in addition to the regular whole burnt offering of the morning, which is the perpetual whole burnt offering. 
28:24: You shall make these offerings according to these directions each day for seven days, as a gift, and as a burnt offering, for a sweet aroma to the Lord; and in addition to the regular whole burnt offering you shall offer its drink offering. 
28:25: Then on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no service work on it. 
28:26: ‘Then on the day of new grain, when you bring a new grain offering to the Lord at your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no service work. 
28:27: You shall offer whole burnt offerings, as a sweet aroma to the Lord: two young bulls from the oxen, one ram, and seven unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
28:28: with their grain offering of fine flour, mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the one ram, 
28:29: and one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs; 
28:30: also one young male of the goats, to make atonement for you. 
28:31: In addition to the regular whole burnt offering be sure they are unblemished—you shall offer to Me their grain offering, with their drink offerings.

