2:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, 
2:2: “Let the children of Israel each man according to his division and military standard camp according to the their fathers’ houses, around and facing the tabernacle of testimony. 
2:3: Those camping first and on the east side shall be the division of Judah with their army; and the ruler of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab.” 
2:4: His army was numbered at seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
2:5: “Those camping next to Judah shall be the tribe of Issachar; and the ruler of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar.” 
2:6: His army was numbered at fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
2:7: “Also camping next to Judah shall be the tribe of Zebulun; and the ruler of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon.” 
2:8: His army was numbered at fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
2:9: “All those numbered in the armies from the camp of Judah were one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred these shall break camp first. 
2:10: “On the south side shall be the division of the camp of Reuben with their army; and the ruler of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.” 
2:11: His army was numbered at forty-six thousand five hundred. 
2:12: “Those camping next to Reuben shall be the tribe of Simeon; and the ruler of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.” 
2:13: His army was numbered at fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
2:14: “Also camping next to Reuben shall be the tribe of Gad; and the ruler of the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.” 
2:15: His army was numbered at forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty. 
2:16: “All those numbered in the armies from the camp of Reuben were one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred fifty they shall be the second to break camp. 
2:17: Then the tabernacle of testimony shall move out with the camp of the Levites in the middle of the camps; as they camp, so they shall break camp, each one next by regiment. 
2:18: “On the west side shall be the division of the camp of Ephraim with their army; and the ruler of the children of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.” 
2:19: His army was numbered at forty thousand five hundred. 
2:20: “Those camping next to Ephraim shall be the tribe of Manasseh; and the ruler of the children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.” 
2:21: His army was numbered at thirty-two thousand two hundred. 
2:22: “Also camping next to Ephraim shall be the tribe of Benjamin; and the ruler of the children of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.” 
2:23: His army was numbered at thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
2:24: “All those numbered in their armies from the camp of Ephraim were one hundred eight thousand one hundred they shall be the third to break camp. 
2:25: On the north side shall be the division of the camp of Dan with their army; and the ruler of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.” 
2:26: His army was numbered at sixty-two thousand seven hundred. 
2:27: “Those camping next to Dan shall be the tribe of Asher; and the ruler of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran.” 
2:28: His army was numbered at forty-one thousand five hundred. 
2:29: “Also camping next to Dan shall be the tribe of Naphtali; and the ruler of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.” 
2:30: His army was numbered at fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
2:31: “All those numbered in the armies with Dan were one hundred and fifty-seven thousand six hundred they shall break camp last, with their divisions.” 
2:32: This numbering of the children of Israel was according to their fathers’ houses. All the numbering of the camps with their armies was six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty. 
2:33: But the Levites were not numbered with them, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
2:34: Thus the children of Israel did all the Lord commanded Moses; so they camped according to their divisions. Thus they broke camp, each one by his family, according to their fathers’ houses.

