14:1: Now all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried, and the people wept that night. 
14:2: All the children of Israel were murmuring against Moses and Aaron, and the whole congregation said to them, “Would we had died in the land of Egypt, or in this desert. 
14:3: Why did the Lord bring us to this land to fall in war? Our wives and children shall be plundered. It is better for us to return to Egypt.” 
14:4: So they said to one another, “Let us select a ruler and return to Egypt.” 
14:5: Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the congregation of the children of Israel. 
14:6: But Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, who were among those who spied out the land, tore their clothes; 
14:7: and they spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, “The land we passed through to spy out is an extremely good land. 
14:8: Since the Lord chooses us, He will bring us into this land and give it to us, ‘a land that flows with milk and honey.’ 
14:9: But do not apostatize from the Lord, nor fear the people of the land, for they are our food; their time has come and gone, but the Lord is with us. Do not fear them.” 
14:10: Then all the congregation said to stone them with stones. Now the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud upon the tabernacle of testimony before all the children of Israel. 
14:11: Then the Lord said to Moses, “How long will these people provoke Me? How long will they not believe Me, with all the signs I performed among them? 
14:12: I will strike them with death and destroy them, and I will make you and your father’s house into a great and more numerous nation than this one.” 
14:13: Then Moses said to the Lord, “But the Egyptians will hear it, for by Your might You brought these people up from among them, 
14:14: and all the inhabitants of this land heard You are the Lord among these people, and who is seen plainly with the eyes, O Lord; and Your cloud stands upon them, and You go before them in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night. 
14:15: Now You would wipe out this people as one man, and the nations, which heard Your name, will speak, saying, 
14:16: ‘Because the Lord was not able to bring this people into the land, which He swore to give them, therefore He spread them out in the desert.’ 
14:17: Now then, let Your strength, O Lord, be exalted, in the manner You spoke, saying, 
14:18: ‘The Lord is longsuffering and abundant in mercy and truth, taking away lawlessness, wrongdoings, and sins; but He would not cleanse the guilty by repaying the sins of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation.’ 
14:19: Remit the sin of this people according to Your great mercy, as You were merciful to them from Egypt even until now.” 
14:20: Again the Lord said to Moses, “I am merciful to them according to your word; 
14:21: but truly, as I live, and My name lives, and all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord; 
14:22: assuredly, all the men who are seeing My glory and signs, which I did in Egypt and in this desert, and put Me to the test now these ten times, and did not heed My voice, 
14:23: they certainly shall not see the land, I swore to their fathers; but their children, who are here with Me, and do not know good nor evil, every inexperienced youngster, to these I shall give the land; however, all those who provoked Me shall not see it. 
14:24: Now My servant Caleb, because he has a different spirit in him and followed Me fully, I will bring him into the land, where he went, and his seed shall inherit it. 
14:25: Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell in the valley; tomorrow turn and depart for the desert by the way of the Red Sea.” 
14:26: Moreover the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, 
14:27: “How long shall I bear with this evil congregation who murmur against Me? I heard the murmuring the children of Israel make against Me. 
14:28: Say to them, ‘As I live, says the Lord, surely in the manner you spoke in My hearing, so I will do to you: 
14:29: your bodies shall fall in this desert, and all your census, who were numbered from twenty years old and above, as many as murmured against Me; 
14:30: and you shall not enter the land, upon which I stretched out My hand that you might settle upon it, except for Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun; 
14:31: but your children, whom you said would be plunder, I will bring them into the land, and they shall inherit the land, from which you apostatized. 
14:32: But your bodies shall fall in this desert; 
14:33: however, your sons shall be shepherds in the desert forty years, and shall bear your fornication, until your bodies are consumed in the desert. 
14:34: According to the number of the days you spied out the land, forty days, for each day you shall bear your guilt one year, namely forty years, and you shall know My fierce anger. 
14:35: I the Lord have spoken; surely I will do so to all this evil congregation gathered together against Me. In this desert they shall be utterly destroyed, and there they shall die.’ ” 
14:36: Now the men Moses sent to spy out the land, and who when they returned murmured against him to the congregation by bringing an evil report of the land, 
14:37: those very men who spoke evil words against the land, died by the plague before the Lord. 
14:38: But Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained alive, of the men who went to spy out the land. 
14:39: Then Moses told these words to all the children of Israel, and the people mourned exceedingly. 
14:40: But they rose early in the morning and went up to the top of the mountain, saying, “Here we are, and we will go up to the place the Lord spoke about, for we sinned.” 
14:41: So Moses said, “Now why do you transgress the word of the Lord? For this will not be easy for you. 
14:42: Do not go up, for the Lord is not with you, and you shall fall before the face of your enemies. 
14:43: For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and you shall fall by the sword; because you have turned away from and disobeyed the Lord, the Lord will not be among you.” 
14:44: But they rebelled and went up to the mountaintop; nevertheless, neither the ark of the covenant of the Lord nor Moses moved from the camp. 
14:45: Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who dwelt in that mountain came down and attacked them, and turned them back and cut them down as far as Hormah. Then they returned to the camp.

