30:1: Now Moses told the children of Israel everything, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
30:2: Then Moses spoke to the rulers of the tribes of Israel, saying, “This is the word the Lord commanded: 
30:3: If any man should vow a vow to the Lord, or swear an oath to bind his soul with an obligation, he may not defile his word; he shall do everything that proceeds out of his mouth. 
30:4: But if a woman should vow a vow to the Lord, and bind herself with an obligation while in her father’s house in her youth, 
30:5: and her father should hear her vows and obligations, with which she bound her soul, and her father should pass over it in silence, then all her vows and every obligation, with which she bound her soul, shall stand, and remain in force for her. 
30:6: But if on the day her father should hear and disapprove all her vows and obligations, with which she bound her soul, then her vows shall not stand; therefore the Lord will consider her blameless, because her father disapproved. 
30:7: “But if she should actually be married, and she binds her soul with vows made by an explicit statement of her own lips, 
30:8: and her husband should hear, and pass over it in silence the day he hears, then all her vows and obligations, with which she bound her soul, shall stand. 
30:9: But if her husband should disapprove on the day he hears, then all her vows and obligations, with which she bound her soul, shall not remain in force, because her husband disapproved of her; therefore the Lord will consider her blameless. 
30:10: Also any vow of a widow or a divorced woman, whatever she should vow concerning her soul, shall remain in force for her. 
30:11: But if her vow should be made in her husband’s house, or if her obligation concerning her soul should be made with an oath, 
30:12: and her husband should hear, and pass over it in silence, and not disapprove her, then all her vows shall stand, and every obligation, with which she bound her soul, shall stand. 
30:13: But if her husband should cancel them on the day he hears, then whatever proceeded from her lips concerning her vows or obligations binding her soul, they shall not remain in force; for her husband canceled them; therefore the Lord will consider her blameless. 
30:14: Every vow and binding oath to afflict her soul, her husband shall establish, or her husband shall cancel. 
30:15: But if her husband should remain silent for more than a single day, then he shall establish all her vows for her; and he shall establish for her the obligations binding her, because he remained silent regarding her on the day he heard them. 
30:16: But if he should cancel them the day after he heard them, then he shall bear her guilt.” 
30:17: These are the ordinances the Lord commanded Moses between a husband and his wife, and between a father and his daughter in her youth in her father’s house.

