29:1: ‘Now in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no service work. It shall be a signal day for you. 
29:2: You shall offer a whole burnt offering, as a sweet aroma to the Lord: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and seven unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:3: with their grain offering of fine flour, mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each young bull, two-tenths for the one ram, 
29:4: and one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs, 
29:5: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, to make atonement for you, 
29:6: in addition to the whole burnt offerings for the first day of the month, with their grain offerings and drink offerings, and the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings, according to their interpretation, as a sweet aroma to the Lord. 
29:7: ‘On the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall afflict your souls; and you shall not do any work. 
29:8: You shall offer whole burnt offerings, burnt offerings as a sweet aroma to the Lord: one young bull from the oxen, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year—be sure they are unblemished, 
29:9: with their grain offering of fine flour, mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each young bull, two-tenths for the one ram, 
29:10: and one-tenth for each of the seven male lambs, 
29:11: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, to make atonement for you, in addition to the sin offering of atonement and the regular whole burnt offering, with its grain offering and drink offering, according to the interpretation, as a burnt offering of sweet aroma to the Lord. 
29:12: ‘Then on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no service work, and you shall keep a feast to the Lord seven days. 
29:13: You shall offer whole burnt offerings, burnt offerings as a sweet aroma to the Lord. ‘On the first day offer thirteen young bulls from the oxen, two rams, and fourteen male lambs in their first year—they shall be unblemished, 
29:14: with their grain offerings of fine flour, mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two-tenths for each of the two rams, 
29:15: and one-tenth for each of the fourteen male lambs, 
29:16: and one young male kid from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:17: ‘On the second day you shall offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:18: with their grain offering and drink offering for the young bulls, the rams, and the male lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation, 
29:19: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:20: ‘On the third day you shall offer eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:21: with their grain offering and drink offering for the young bulls, the rams, and the male lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation, 
29:22: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:23: ‘On the fourth day you shall offer ten young bulls, two rams, and fourteen unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:24: with their grain offerings and drink offerings for the young bulls, the rams, and the male lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation, 
29:25: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:26: ‘On the fifth day you shall offer nine young bulls, two rams, and fourteen unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:27: with their grain offerings and drink offerings for the young bulls, the rams, and the male lambs, according their number, according to their interpretation; 
29:28: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:29: ‘On the sixth day you shall offer eight young bulls, two rams, and fourteen unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:30: with their grain offerings and drink offerings for the young bulls, the rams, and the male lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation, 
29:31: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:32: ‘On the seventh day you shall offer seven bulls, two rams, and fourteen unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:33: with their grain offerings and drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the male lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation, 
29:34: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular whole burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:35: ‘On the eighth day you shall have the final day of the festival. You shall do no service work on it. 
29:36: You shall present whole burnt offerings, burnt offerings as a sweet aroma to the Lord: one young bull, one ram, seven unblemished male lambs in their first year, 
29:37: with their grain offerings and drink offerings for the bull, the ram, and the male lambs, according to their number, according to their interpretation, 
29:38: and one young male from the goats as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, with their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
29:39: ‘These you shall offer to the Lord at your appointed feasts, in addition to your vows and voluntary offerings, as well as your whole burnt offerings, your grain offerings, your drink offerings and your peace offerings.’ ”

