27:1: Now came the daughters of Zelophehad the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, from the tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph; and these were the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
27:2: So they stood before Moses, before Eleazar the priest, and before the rulers and all the congregation, by the door of the tabernacle of testimony, saying, 
27:3: “Our father died in the desert; but he was not in the company of those who gathered together against the Lord, in company with Korah, but he died in his own sin, and had no sons. 
27:4: Do not let the name of our father be wiped out from among his tribe, because he had no son. Give us a possession among our father’s brothers.” 
27:5: So Moses brought their case before the Lord. 
27:6: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
27:7: “The daughters of Zelophehad speak correctly; you shall surely give them a possession of inheritance among their father’s brothers, and assign the allotment of their father to them. 
27:8: Then you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying: ‘If a man dies and has no son, you shall assign his inheritance to his daughter. 
27:9: But if he has no daughter, you shall give the inheritance to his brother. 
27:10: But if he has no brothers, you shall give his inheritance to his father’s brother. 
27:11: But if his father has no brothers, you shall give his inheritance to the relative closest to him in his tribe; and he shall inherit his possessions.’ ” So this shall be an ordinance of judgment to the children of Israel, as the Lord ordered Moses. 
27:12: Now the Lord said to Moses, “Go up into the mountain beyond the Jordan (this is Mount Nebo), and see the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel for a possession. 
27:13: Then you shall see it, and be added to your people, even you, as Aaron your brother was added on Mount Hor, 
27:14: because you transgressed My word in the Desert of Sin, when the congregation was failing to sanctify Me, you did not sanctify Me before them.” (This was the Water of Contention, at Kadesh in the Desert of Sin.) 
27:15: Then Moses spoke to the Lord, saying, 
27:16: “Let the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation, 
27:17: who will go in and out before their face, and lead them out and bring them in; then the congregation of the Lord will not be like sheep without a shepherd.” 
27:18: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, “Take Joshua the son of Nun with you, a man who has the Spirit in himself, and put your hand on him; 
27:19: and stand him before Eleazar the priest, and give orders to him before all the congregation, and give orders concerning him before them. 
27:20: You shall then give some of your glory to him, that the children of Israel may obey him. 
27:21: So he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, and they shall inquire before the Lord for him by the judgment of the Urim. At his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, he and all the children of Israel in one accord, even all the congregation.” 
27:22: So Moses did as the Lord commanded him, and taking Joshua, he stood him before Eleazar the priest and before all the congregation. 
27:23: Then he put his hands on him and appointed him, as the Lord commanded Moses.

