10:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
10:2: “Make two silver trumpets for yourself; you shall make them of hammered work; you shall use them to call the congregation and to break the camps. 
10:3: You shall blow the trumpets among them, and all the congregation shall be gathered at the door of the tabernacle of testimony. 
10:4: But if they blow one trumpet, all the rulers, the heads of the divisions of Israel, shall gather to you. 
10:5: Then you shall blow the trumpet signal, and the camps camping on the east side shall break camp. 
10:6: Again, you shall blow the trumpet signal a second time, and the camps camping on the south side shall break camp; and you shall blow the trumpet signal a third time, and the camps camping on the west side shall break camp; and you shall blow the trumpet signal a fourth time, and the camps camping on the north side shall break camp. They shall blow the trumpet signal when they break camp. 
10:7: Then when you have gathered the congregation together, you shall blow the trumpet, but not the trumpet signal. 
10:8: The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; and this shall be your custom perpetually throughout your generations. 
10:9: If you should go to war in your land against the enemy who oppresses you, you shall sound the trumpet signal, and you will be remembered before the Lord, and you will be saved from your enemies. 
10:10: Also in the days of your gladness, and in your feasts, and at the beginning of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your whole burnt offerings and the sacrifices of your peace offerings; and they shall be a remembrance for you before your God: I am the Lord your God.” 
10:11: Now it came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month, in the second year, that the cloud ascended from the tabernacle of the testimony. 
10:12: Then the children of Israel broke camp with their household goods in the Sinai Desert; and the cloud stood in the Desert of Paran. 
10:13: So the first ones broke camp at the Lord’s voice by the hand of Moses. 
10:14: The division of the camp of the children of Judah was the first to break camp with their army; and over their army was Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
10:15: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
10:16: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon. 
10:17: Then the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari took down the tabernacle, and broke camp, carrying the tabernacle. 
10:18: After this, the division of the camp of Reuben broke camp with their army; and over their army was Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
10:19: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
10:20: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel. 
10:21: Then the sons of Kohath broke camp, carrying the holy things (and they would set up the tabernacle, before their arrival.). 
10:22: After this, the division of the camp of the children of Ephraim broke camp with their army; and over their army was Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
10:23: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
10:24: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
10:25: Then the division of the camp of the children of Dan (the last of all the camps with their army) broke camp; and over their army was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
10:26: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ocran. 
10:27: Over the army of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan. 
10:28: These were the armies of the children of Israel, and they broke camp with their army. 
10:29: Now Moses said to Hobab the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses’ father-in-law, “We are breaking camp for the place the Lord spoke of, saying, ‘I will give it to you.’ Come with us, and we will treat you well; for the Lord spoke good things concerning Israel.” 
10:30: However, he said to him, “I will not go, but I will depart to my land and to my relatives.” 
10:31: But he replied, “Do not leave us, because you were with us in the desert, and you would be an elder among us. 
10:32: It would also be, if you should go with us, that the good things whatsoever the Lord will do for us, the same we will do for you.” 
10:33: So they broke camp at the mountain of the Lord for a journey of three days; and the ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them for the three days’ journey, to search out a resting place for them. 
10:34: Now it came to pass, that when they broke camp with the ark, Moses said, “Rise up, O Lord! Let Your enemies be scattered, and let all who hate you flee.” 
10:35: And when the ark rested, he said, “Return, O Lord, to the many thousands in Israel!” 
10:36: The cloud also overshadowed them by day when they broke camp.

