24:1: Now when Balaam saw it was good before the Lord to bless Israel, he did not go as he was accustomed to do, to seek and find omens; but he turned and set his face toward the desert. 
24:2: Then Balaam raised his eyes, and saw Israel encamped according to their tribes; and the Spirit of God came upon him. 
24:3: Then he took up his parable and said: “Balaam the son of Beor declares; The man who truly sees declares; 
24:4: The one who hears the sayings of God declares; The one who saw the vision of God in a dream, A revelation seen by him: 
24:5: How beautiful are your dwellings, O Jacob, Your tents, O Israel. 
24:6: Like wooded valleys offering shade, And like gardens by the rivers, Like tents the Lord pitched, Like cedars beside the waters. 
24:7: A Man shall come forth from his seed, And He shall rule many nations; And His kingdom shall be more exalted than Gog, And His kingdom shall increase. 
24:8: God led Him out of Egypt, And He has the glorious appearance of a unicorn. He shall consume the nations of his enemies, And deprive them of their strength. He shall shoot the enemy with His missiles. 
24:9: He lays down and rests like a lion, And like a lion’s cub, who shall rouse Him? Those who bless You are blessed, And those who curse You are cursed.” 
24:10: Then Balak was angry with Balaam, and he struck his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, “I summoned you to curse my enemy, and look, you actually blessed him for a third time. 
24:11: Now therefore, flee to your place. I said I would honor you, but in fact, the Lord deprived you of glory.” 
24:12: So Balaam said to Balak, “Did I not also tell your messengers whom you sent to me, saying, 
24:13: ‘If Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I could not go beyond the Lord’s word, to do good or evil of my own will. Whatever the Lord may say, this I shall speak’? 
24:14: So now, indeed, I am going to my place. Come, I will counsel you as to what this people will do to your people in the latter days.” 
24:15: So he took up his parable and said: “Balaam the son of Beor declares; The man who truly sees declares; 
24:16: the one who hears the sayings of God declares; And the one who knows the knowledge of the Most High, And who saw the vision of God in a dream, a revelation seen by him: 
24:17: I will show Him, but not now; I bless Him, but He is not near. A Star shall rise out of Jacob; And a Man shall rise out of Israel. He shall break in pieces the rulers of Moab, And plunder all the sons of Seth. 
24:18: Edom shall be His inheritance, And also His enemy shall be His inheritance; But Israel acts with strength. 
24:19: He shall rise up out of Jacob, And destroy the survivors of the city.” 
24:20: Then seeing Amalek, he took up his parable and said: “Amalek was first of the nations, but their seed shall perish.” 
24:21: Then seeing the Kenites, he took up his parable, and said: “Your dwelling is strong; And if you should put your nest in a rock, 
24:22: and become dwellings of craftiness for Beor, Nevertheless the Assyrians shall take you captive.” 
24:23: Then seeing Og, he took up his parable, and said: “Oh! Oh! Who shall live whenever God may bring these things to pass. 
24:24: Now these things shall come to pass from the hand of the Kittians, and they shall also maltreat Asshur and the Hebrews, But they themselves with one accord shall perish.” 
24:25: So Balaam rose and departed and returned to his place; Balak also went to his own place.

