7:1: My son, guard my words, And hide my commandments with yourself; 
7:2: My son, honor the Lord, and you shall be strong, And fear none other but Him. 
7:3: Guard my commandments, And you will live, and my words as the pupils of your eyes; 
7:4: And put them around your fingers, And write them upon the breadth of your heart. 
7:5: Say that wisdom is your sister, And gain discernment as a friend for yourself, 
7:6: So they may keep you from a strange and evil woman, If she comes at you with flattering words. 
7:7: For she looks from a window of her house into the streets, Upon whom she might see among the undiscerning children, 
7:8: A young man lacking discernment, Passing by near the corner on the pathways of her house; 
7:9: And she speaks in the darkness at evening, When there is silence on a dark night; 
7:10: And the woman meets him, having the appearance of a prostitute; She makes the heart of young men throb. 
7:11: She is excited and debauched, And her feet do not rest at home. 
7:12: For at times she is outside roaming about, And another time she is in the streets near every corner laying a trap. 
7:13: Then laying hold of him, she kisses him, And with a shameless face she says to him: 
7:14: “I have a peace offering; Today, I pay my vows; 
7:15: For this reason I came out to meet you; Longing for your face, I found you; 
7:16: I spread my bed with sheets, And covered it with tapestry from Egypt. 
7:17: I sprinkled my bed with saffron, And my house with cinnamon; 
7:18: Come, and let us enjoy love until morning; Come, and let us embrace in love; 
7:19: For my husband is not at home, But is gone on a long journey. 
7:20: Taking a bag of money in his hand, He will return to his house after many days.” 
7:21: So she leads him astray with much conversation, And with snares from her lips, she compels him. 
7:22: And being cajoled, he follows her, As an ox is led for slaughter, 
7:23: And as a dog to bonds, Or as a deer struck with an arrow in the liver; 
7:24: And he hastens even as a bird into a snare, Not knowing he runs for his life. 
7:25: Now, therefore, my son, hear me, And hold fast to the words of my mouth; 
7:26: Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways, For she wounded and cast down many, And those whom she slew are innumerable; 
7:27: Her house is the road to Hades, Leading down to the chambers of death.

