1:1: The Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, Who reigned in Israel, 
1:2: To know wisdom and instruction, And to understand words of discernment; 
1:3: To receive both subtlety of words, And to understand true righteousness and upright judgment; 
1:4: So as to give astuteness to the simple, And both perception and understanding to a young man; 
1:5: For a wise man who hears these things will be wiser, And the man of understanding will gain direction. 
1:6: He will understand both a parable and a hidden saying, Both wise words and riddles. 
1:7: The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom, And there is good understanding in all who practice it; 
1:8: And godliness toward God is the beginning of perception, But the ungodly despise wisdom and instruction. 
1:9: Hear, my son, the instruction of your father, And do not reject the laws of your mother. 
1:10: For you will receive a crown of grace on your head And a gold chain around your neck. 
1:11: My son, do not let the ungodly lead you astray, And do not consent, if they invite you, saying: 
1:12: “Come with us; take part in bloodshed, And let us hide a righteous man in the earth unjustly; 
1:13: And let us swallow him, just as Hades does the living, And let us take away his remembrance from the earth; 
1:14: Let us seize his valuable property, And let us fill our houses with spoils; 
1:15: Cast your lot with us And let us acquire a common bag; Let there be one purse for us.” 
1:16: Do not walk in the way with them, But turn away your foot from their paths. 
1:17: For their feet run to evil, And they make haste to shed blood. 
1:18: For nets are not spread before birds for no reason, For those who participate in murder store up evils for themselves; And evil is the destruction of lawless men. 
1:19: These are the ways of all who accomplish lawless things, For they take away their own soul in ungodliness. 
1:20: Wisdom sings in the streets; She moves boldly in the squares. 
1:21: She preaches on high city walls, And sits at the gates of lords. At the gates of a city she boldly says: 
1:22: “So long a time as the simple hold fast to righteousness, They shall not be ashamed; 
1:23: But those without discernment, since they are desirous of arrogance, And are become ungodly, they hate perception, And are become subject to reproofs. 
1:24: Behold, I shall bring forth upon you the utterance of my breath, And I shall teach you my word. 
1:25: Since I called, but you did not obey, And spoke at length, but you paid no attention, 
1:26: But made my counsels invalid, And were not persuaded by my reproofs; 
1:27: Consequently, I will laugh at your annihilation, And will exult when ruin comes to you, 
1:28: “And when confusion reaches you unawares, And overthrow comes like a whirlwind, 
1:29: And when tribulation and anguish come to you, And when destruction comes to you. 
1:30: For it shall be, when you shall call upon me, I will not listen to you; 
1:31: Evil men will seek me, but not find me, For they hate wisdom, and choose not the fear of the Lord. 
1:32: Neither do they wish to follow my counsels, But despise my reproofs. 
1:33: Therefore, they shall eat the fruits of their own way, And be filled with their own ungodliness. 
1:34: For since they wrong the simple, they shall be killed, And a close examination shall destroy the ungodly. 
1:35: But he who obeys me shall dwell in hope, And shall be at rest without fear from every evil.”

