2:1: My son, if you receive the words of my commandment, And hide them within yourself, 
2:2: Your ear will be obedient to wisdom, And you will incline your heart to understanding; You will entrust it to your son as an admonition. 
2:3: For if he calls upon wisdom, And you utter your voice for understanding, If you seek perception with a strong voice, 
2:4: If you seek her as silver, And search for her as treasure, 
2:5: Then you will understand the fear of the Lord, And find the knowledge of God. 
2:6: For the Lord gives wisdom, And from His face come knowledge and understanding; 
2:7: And He stores up salvation for the upright; He will protect their journey, 
2:8: That He might guard the ways of His ordinances; And He will carefully guard the way of those who reverence Him. 
2:9: Then you will understand righteousness and judgment, And accomplish successfully every good path for yourself. 
2:10: For if wisdom comes into your mind, And the perception in your soul seems to be good, 
2:11: Then good counsel will guard you, And holy thinking will keep you; 
2:12: That it might rescue you from an evil way, And from a man who speaks nothing trustworthy. 
2:13: Woe to those who forsake the paths of uprightness, So they may walk in the ways of darkness, 
2:14: Who delight in evils, And rejoice in evil perversion, 
2:15: Whose ways are crooked, And their paths devious, 
2:16: So they may cause you to be far from the straight way, And a stranger of righteous judgment. 
2:17: My son, do not lay hold of evil counsel, Nor forsake the teaching of your youth, And forget the divine covenant; 
2:18: For it establishes its house with death, And its paths beside Hades with the dead; 
2:19: All who journey there do not return, Nor do they lay hold of straight paths; For they do not comprehend the years of life. 
2:20: For if they walked in good paths, They would find the smooth paths of righteousness. 
2:21: The inhabitants of the land will be good, And the simple will be left in it; 
2:22: For the upright will dwell in the land, And the holy will be left in it. 
2:23: The ways of the ungodly shall perish from the land, And the lawless shall be banished from it.

