9:1: Wisdom built her house, And she supported it with seven pillars. 
9:2: She offered her sacrifices; She mixed her wine in a bowl, And prepared her table. 
9:3: She sent her servants, Inviting people to the bowl with a lofty proclamation, saying, 
9:4: “He who is without discernment, Let him turn aside to me;” And to those in need of discernment, she says: 
9:5: “Come, eat my bread And drink the wine I mixed for you; 
9:6: Forsake lack of discernment, and you shall live; Seek discernment so you may live, And keep straight your understanding with knowledge.” 
9:7: He who chastises evil men shall receive dishonor to himself, And he who reproves the ungodly man shall be blamed himself. 
9:8: Do not reprove evil men, so they may not hate you; Reprove a wise man, and he will love you. 
9:9: Give the opportunity to a wise man, and he will be wiser; Instruct a righteous man, and he shall continue to receive it. 
9:10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, And the counsel of saints is understanding; For to know the law is characteristic of a good mind. 
9:11: For in this manner you will live a long time, And the years of your life shall be increased. 
9:12: My son, if you become wise in yourself, you shall also be wise toward your neighbor, But if you prove to be evil, you alone will go through troubles. 
9:13: He who supports himself with lies will shepherd winds And chase flying birds; 
9:14: For he abandoned the ways of his own vineyard, And strayed from paths of his own farming; 
9:15: And he will pass through a waterless desert, A land assigned to drought, And he gathers barrenness with his hands. 
9:16: A woman in need of a morsel is without discernment and over-bold; She has no sense of shame. 
9:17: She sits upon the doors of her own house, Upon a seat openly in the streets, 
9:18: Calling to those who pass by, And who go straight along their paths: 
9:19: “He who is very lacking in discernment, let him turn aside to me; And he who is in need of discernment, I exhort, saying, 
9:20: ‘Grasp with pleasure the secret bread And the sweet water of theft.’ ” 
9:21: But he does not know that the inhabitants of the earth perish beside her, And he happens upon a snare of Hades. 
9:22: But hurry off, do not continue in that place, Neither set your eye toward her; 
9:23: For so you shall pass through strange water, And cross beyond a strange river; 
9:24: And keep away from strange water, And do not drink from a strange fountain; 
9:25: That you may live a long time, And add years of life to yourself.

