5:1: My son, hold fast to wisdom, And incline your ear to my words, 
5:2: That you may guard good thinking; And I command you with the perception of my lips. 
5:3: Do not join yourself to a base woman, For honey drips from the lips of a prostitute, Or for a season she is pleasing to your taste; 
5:4: Afterward, however, you will find her more bitter than gall, And sharper than a two-edged sword. 
5:5: For feet lacking discernment lead those using her down into Hades with death; Her footsteps are not planted, 
5:6: For she does not travel the ways of life; And her paths are slippery, and not easy to discern. 
5:7: Now therefore, my son, hear me, And do not make my words invalid; 
5:8: Make your way distant from her, And do not come near the doors of her house; 
5:9: That you may not give away your life to others, And your existence to the merciless; 
5:10: That strangers may not be filled with your strength, And your labors go into the houses of strangers; 
5:11: And you should feel regret at the last, When the flesh of your body is consumed; 
5:12: And you will say: “How I hated instruction, And turned my heart away from reproofs; 
5:13: I did not hear the voice of my instructor and teacher, Nor did I incline my ear; 
5:14: Little by little I was in every evil, In the midst of the church and congregation.” 
5:15: Drink waters from your vessels And from the fountains of your spring. 
5:16: Do not let the waters from your fountain be spilled by you, But let your waters pass through your wide places; 
5:17: Let them be only for you, And let no stranger partake with you; 
5:18: Let the fountain of your water be for you alone, And rejoice together with the wife of your youth. 
5:19: Let your loving deer and graceful colt keep company with you, And let her alone go before you, and be with you at all times; For in living with her love, you will be great. 
5:20: Do not be intimate with a strange woman, Neither cling to the embrace of a woman not your own; 
5:21: For the ways of man are before the eyes of God, And He keeps close watch on all his paths. 
5:22: Lawless women ensnare a man, But each man is bound by the chains of his own sins. 
5:23: Such a man dies with the uninstructed, And is cast forth from the abundance of his own substance; And he is destroyed by lack of discernment.

