4:1: Hear, my children, the instruction of your father, And pay attention, that you might know his thinking; 
4:2: For I offer a good gift to you; Do not forsake my law. 
4:3: For I was a son, and I was obedient to my father, And beloved in the presence of my mother, 
4:4: Who taught me, saying: “Let our word become firmly planted in your heart; 
4:5: Guard our commandments; do not forget them; Neither disregard the word of my mouth, 
4:6: Nor forsake it, and it shall cleave to you; Love it, and it will keep you. 
4:7: Secure it, and it shall exalt you; Honor it, that it may embrace you, 
4:8: And give your head a crown of graces, And cover you with a crown of delight.” 
4:9: Hear me, my son, and receive my words, And the years of your life shall be increased, That many ways of life may be yours; 
4:10: For I teach you the ways of wisdom, And set you on upright paths. 
4:11: For if you walk, your steps shall not be confined; And if you run, you will not grow weary. 
4:12: Lay hold of my instruction; do not let go, But guard it for yourself as your life. 
4:13: Do not go in the ways of the ungodly, Neither be zealous for the ways of the lawless; 
4:14: In whatever place they encamp, do not go there, But turn aside from them, and pass by. 
4:15: For they cannot sleep, unless they do evil; Their sleep is taken away, and they do not rest; 
4:16: For they feed on the bread of ungodliness, And they are drunk with the wine of lawlessness. 
4:17: But the ways of the righteous shine like a light; They go before, and give light, until full daylight. 
4:18: But the ways of the ungodly are dark; They do not know how they stumble. 
4:19: My son, give heed to my word, And incline your ear to my words, 
4:20: That your fountains may not fail you; Guard them in your heart; 
4:21: For they are life to those who find them, And healing for all their flesh. 
4:22: Keep your heart with all watchfulness, For from these words are the issues of life. 
4:23: Put away from yourself a crooked mouth, And remove unrighteous lips far from you. 
4:24: Let your eyes look straight forward, And let your eyelids assent to righteous things. 
4:25: Make straight paths for your feet, And direct your ways aright. 
4:26: Do not turn aside to the right or to the left, But turn your foot from an evil way; 
4:27: For God knows the ways on the right hand, But those on the left are perverse; 
4:28: And He shall make your paths straight, And guide your steps in peace.

