3:1: My son, do not forget my laws, But let your heart keep my words; 
3:2: For length of days, and years of life and peace, They will add to you. 
3:3: Do not let almsgiving and faithfulness forsake you, But hang them upon your neck; 
3:4: And you will find grace, And provide good things before the Lord and men. 
3:5: Trust in God with your whole heart, And do not exalt your own wisdom. 
3:6: In all your ways know wisdom, That she may cut a straight path for you; And your foot will not stumble. 
3:7: Do not rely on your own discernment, But fear God, and turn away from every evil. 
3:8: Then there shall be healing for your body And care for your bones. 
3:9: Honor the Lord from your righteous labors, And offer Him the firstfruits from the fruits of your righteousness; 
3:10: That your storehouses may be filled with abundance of grain, And your winepresses may gush out with wine. 
3:11: My son, do not despise the instruction of the Lord, Neither grow weary under His reproof. 
3:12: For whom the Lord loves He instructs, And chastises every son He receives. 
3:13: Blessed is a man who finds wisdom, And a mortal who sees discernment; 
3:14: For the profits gained from wisdom are better, Than the treasures of gold and silver. 
3:15: And wisdom is more valuable than precious stones, And nothing evil will withstand her; 
3:16: She is well-known to all who come near her, And no honor is worthy of her. 
3:17: For length of days and years of life are in her right hand, And in her left hand are riches and glory; 
3:18: Righteousness proceeds from her mouth, And she carries law and mercy upon her tongue. 
3:19: Her ways are good ways, And all her paths are in peace. 
3:20: She is a tree of life for all who cleave to her, And she is security for those who lean upon her, as upon the Lord. 
3:21: God by wisdom founded the earth, And prepared the heavens with discernment. 
3:22: With perception the depths were broken up, And the clouds flowed with dew. 
3:23: My son, do not be careless, But keep my counsel and thinking; 
3:24: That your soul may live, And grace may be around your neck. 
3:25: And there will be healing for your flesh, And care for your bones; 
3:26: That you may walk confidently in peace in all your ways, And your foot may not stumble. 
3:27: For if you sit down, you will be without fear, And if you lie down, your sleep will be pleasant. 
3:28: And do not be afraid of intimidation when it comes upon you, Nor of the attack of the ungodly when it comes at you; 
3:29: For the Lord will be over all your ways, And He will plant your feet firmly, that you may not be shaken. 
3:30: Do not withhold doing good to the needy, When you may give a helping hand; 
3:31: Do not say, when you are able to do good, “Come back tomorrow, and I will give you something;” For you do not know what the next day will bring forth. 
3:32: Do not devise evil things against your friend, Who dwells beside you, and trusts in you. 
3:33: Do not be ready to quarrel with a man in vain, Lest he do you some harm. 
3:34: Do not incur the reproach of evil men, Neither seek their ways; 
3:35: For every lawless man is unclean before the Lord, And he does not sit among the righteous. 
3:36: The curse of God is in the houses of the ungodly, But He blesses the dwellings of the righteous. 
3:37: The Lord opposes the arrogant, But He gives grace to the humble. 
3:38: The wise shall inherit glory, But the ungodly exalt dishonor.

