6:1: My son, if you assume the debt of your friend, You will deliver your hand to an enemy; 
6:2: For a man’s own lips become a strong snare to him, And he is conquered by the utterances of his own mouth. 
6:3: My son, do what I command you, and you will save yourself; For you came into the hands of evil things through your friend; 
6:4: Do not be faint, But provoke even your friend, for whom you assumed a debt; 
6:5: Do not give sleep to your eyes, Nor slumber to your eyelids, 
6:6: That you may be saved, as a gazelle from the snares, And as a bird from a trap. 
6:7: Compare yourself with the ant, O sluggard, And be zealous when you see his ways, And become wiser than he. 
6:8: For although he has no tilled land, Neither anyone to compel him, Nor any master to rule him, 
6:9: Yet he prepares all his food in the summer, And makes his provisions abundant in the winter. 
6:10: Or go to the honeybee, And learn how she is a worker, And how solemnly she does her work, 
6:11: Whose labors kings and common people use for health; And she is desirable to all and glorious; 
6:12: And although she is weak in bodily strength, She leads the way in honoring wisdom. 
6:13: How long, O sluggard, will you be idle, And when will you arise from sleep? 
6:14: You sleep a little; you sit down a little; you doze a short while; And you fold your hands on your chest a little; 
6:15: Then poverty comes to you as an evil traveler, And neediness as a swift runner. 
6:16: But if you are diligent, your harvest shall come to you as a fountain, And neediness as an evil runner shall desert you. 
6:17: A man who is without discernment and is lawless does not walk in good ways. But he winks with an eye; he makes a sign with his foot, And teaches with the wave of his hand. 
6:18: And with a perverse heart, he constantly schemes evil things; Such a man causes trouble in a city. 
6:19: Therefore his destruction comes suddenly, A deep and incurable wound. 
6:20: For he rejoices in everything the Lord hates, And he shall be broken because of his soul’s uncleanness: 
6:21: A haughty eye, an unrighteous tongue, Hands that shed righteous blood, 
6:22: A heart that devises evil thoughts, And feet that hasten to do evil; 
6:23: As a false witness he kindles injustice, And causes quarrels between brethren. 
6:24: My son, guard the laws of your father, And do not depart from the rules of your mother. 
6:25: But fasten them to your soul continually, And wear them as a collar upon your neck. 
6:26: When you walk about, bring along this commandment, And let it be with you; 
6:27: And as you sleep, let it guard you, That when you arise, it may speak to you. 
6:28: For a commandment of law is a lamp and a light, And the way of life is reproof and instruction, 
6:29: That you may keep yourself from a married woman, And from the slanderous tongue of a strange woman. 
6:30: Do not let the desire of beauty conquer you; Neither be caught by her eyes, Nor captivated by her eyelids; 
6:31: For the value of a prostitute is only one loaf, And such a woman hunts for the precious souls of men. 
6:32: Shall anyone bind fire to his bosom, And his garments not burn? 
6:33: Or will anyone walk about on coals of fire, And not burn his feet? 
6:34: Likewise is the one who goes in to a married woman; He shall not be guiltless, nor any who touch her. 
6:35: It is not surprising if anyone who steals is caught, For he steals that he may fill his hungry soul; 
6:36: But if he is caught, he will repay seven-fold, And by giving all his goods, he shall deliver himself. 
6:37: But the adulterer, through his lack of discernment, Obtains the destruction of his soul; 
6:38: He bears both pain and dishonor, And his disgrace will not be wiped away forever. 
6:39: For the anger of her husband is full of jealousy; He will not spare in the day of judgment; 
6:40: He will not take any ransom in exchange for his hatred, Nor will he be reconciled by many gifts.

