9:1: For the End; Concerning the Hidden Things of the Son; A Psalm of David. 
9:2: I will give thanks to You, O Lord, with my whole heart, I will tell of all Your wondrous things; 
9:3: I will be glad and rejoice in You, I will sing praise to Your name, O Most High. 
9:4: When my enemy turns backwards, They shall be feeble and perish before Your face. 
9:5: For You maintain my judgment and my right; You sit upon the throne, judging in righteousness. 
9:6: You rebuke the nations, and the ungodly man destroys himself; You blotted out their name, in their lifetime and unto ages of ages; 
9:7: The swords of the enemy are completely forsaken, and you pulled down their cities; Their memory was destroyed with a noise. 
9:8: But the Lord abides forever; He prepared His throne in judgment; 
9:9: And He shall judge the world in righteousness; He shall judge the peoples in uprightness. 
9:10: The Lord is also a refuge for the poor man, A helper in times of affliction; 
9:11: And let those who know Your name put their hope in You; For You, O Lord, do not forsake those who seek You. 
9:12: Sing to the Lord who dwells on Zion. Proclaim His dealings among the nations, 
9:13: For He who avenges blood remembers them; He does not forget the cry of the poor. 
9:14: Have mercy on me, O Lord, and see how my enemies have humbled me, You who raise me up from the gates of death, 
9:15: That I may proclaim all Your praises In the gates of the daughter of Zion. I will rejoice in Your salvation. 
9:16: The nations are trapped in the destruction they caused; Their foot is caught in the trap they hid. 
9:17: The Lord is known in the judgments He makes; The sinner is caught in the works of his hands. (Pause) 
9:18: Let sinners be turned back into Hades; And all the nations who forget God. 
9:19: For the poor man shall not be forgotten in the end; The patience of the poor shall not perish forever. 
9:20: Arise, O Lord, and do not let man prevail; Let the nations be judged in Your presence. 
9:21: Set a lawgiver over them, O Lord, And let the nations know that they are men. (Pause) 
9:22: Why do You stand afar off, O Lord? Why do you disregard me in times of affliction? 
9:23: When the ungodly man behaves arrogantly, the poor are set afire; Let him be caught in the counsels he ponders. 
9:24: For the sinner praises himself in the desires of his soul, And the unjust man blesses himself. 
9:25: The sinner provokes the Lord; He will not seek him out because of the fullness of His wrath. God is not before him. 
9:26: His ways are defiled in every season; Your judgments are removed from his face; He shall rule over all his enemies, 
9:27: For he said in his heart, “I will not be shaken; From generation to generation I will be without trouble.” 
9:28: His mouth is full of cursing, bitterness and deceit; Suffering and pain are under his tongue. 
9:29: He lies in ambush with the wealthy; He kills the innocent in hidden places; His eyes look intently at the poor; 
9:30: He lies in ambush in a hiding place, like a lion in his den; He lies in wait to seize the poor man, to seize the poor man to drag him away; 
9:31: He will humble him in his snare; But he will bend down and fall when he rules over the poor. 
9:32: For he said in his heart, “God forgets; He turned His face so as never to see it.” 
9:33: Arise, O Lord God, let Your hand be lifted high, And do not forget your poor. 
9:34: Why has the ungodly man provoked God? For he said in his heart, “You will never call me to account for this.” 
9:35: But You do see, You do perceive the suffering and pain, That you might deliver them into Your hands; Therefore, the poor man will be left to You; You give help to the orphan. 
9:36: Break the arm of the sinner and the evil man; His sin shall be sought, and because of it he will not be found. 
9:37: The Lord will reign, But you, O nations, you will perish from His earth. 
9:38: The Lord hears the desire of the poor; Your ear heeds the readiness of their heart, 
9:39: To judge the orphan and the humble, That man may no longer increase his great boasting upon the earth.

