39:1: For the End; a Psalm by David. 
39:2: I waited patiently for the Lord, and He heeded me; And He heard my supplication, 
39:3: And brought me up out of a miserable pit And from miry clay; And He established my feet on a rock, And kept straight my steps. 
39:4: He put a new song in my mouth, A hymn to our God; Many will see and be afraid, And shall hope in the Lord. 
39:5: Blessed is the man whose hope is the name of the Lord, And who did not look into vanities and false frenzies. 
39:6: Many, O Lord my God, are the wonders You performed, And in Your thoughts there is no one who shall be likened to You; I declared and said, “They are multiplied beyond number. 
39:7: Sacrifice and offering You did not will; But a body You prepared for me; A whole burnt offering and a sin offering You did not require.” 
39:8: Then I said, “Behold, I come (it is written of me in the volume of the book); 
39:9: I willed to do Your will, O my God, And Your law in the midst of my heart.” 
39:10: I proclaimed righteousness in the great church; Behold, I shall not restrain my lips, O Lord, You know. 
39:11: I did not hide Your righteousness in my heart; I declared Your truth and Your salvation; I did not hide Your mercy and Your truth from the great congregation. 
39:12: O Lord, do not remove Your compassion from me; May Your mercy and Your truth take hold of me continually. 
39:13: For evils without number surrounded me; My transgressions overpowered me, and I could not see; They multiplied more than the hairs of my head, And my heart failed me. 
39:14: Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, give heed to help me. 
39:15: May those who seek my soul to make away with it Be disgraced and confounded together; May those who wish evil for me be turned back and disgraced; 
39:16: May those who say to me, “Well done! Well done!” Receive their shame immediately. 
39:17: May all who seek You, O Lord, rejoice exceedingly, and be glad in You; And may those who love Your salvation say continually, “The Lord be magnified.” 
39:18: But I am poor and needy; the Lord will take care of me. You are my helper and my protector; O my God, do not delay.

