44:1: For the End, Concerning Things That Shall Be Changed; To the Sons of Korah for Understanding; an Ode Concerning the Beloved One. 
44:2: My heart overflowed with a good word; I tell my works to the King; My tongue is the pen of a swift-writing scribe. 
44:3: You are more beautiful than the sons of men; Grace was poured out on your lips; Therefore God blessed you forever. 
44:4: Gird your sword upon your thigh, O Mighty One; In your splendor and your beauty. 
44:5: And stretch your bow, and grant prosperity, and reign Because of truth, gentleness, and righteousness, And your right hand shall guide you wondrously. 
44:6: Your arrows are sharp, O Mighty One, (The peoples shall fall under you) In the heart of the King’s enemies, 
44:7: Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; Your royal scepter is a scepter of uprightness. 
44:8: You loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; Therefore God, your God, anointed you With the oil of gladness more than your companions. 
44:9: Myrrh and stacte and cassia pour forth from your garments, From the ivory palaces, from which they gladdened you. 
44:10: There are daughters of kings in your honor; The queen stood at your right hand in apparel interwoven with gold, And adorned and embroidered with various colors. 
44:11: Listen, O daughter, behold and incline your ear, And forget your people and your father’s house; 
44:12: For the King desired your beauty, For he is your Lord. 
44:13: And the daughter of Tyre shall worship him with gifts; The rich among the people shall entreat your favor. 
44:14: All her glory as the King’s daughter is within, Adorned and embroidered with golden tassels. 
44:15: The virgins behind her shall be brought to the King; Her neighbors shall be brought to you; 
44:16: They shall be brought with gladness and rejoicing; They shall be led into the temple of the King. 
44:17: In place of your fathers, sons shall be born to you; You shall make them rulers over all the earth. 
44:18: They shall remember your name from generation to generation; Therefore, peoples shall give thanks to you Forever and unto ages of ages.

