58:1: For the End; Corrupt Not; by David; for a Pillar Inscription, When Saul Sent and Watched His House, That He Might Kill Him. 
58:2: Rescue me from my enemies, O God, And redeem me from those who rise up against me. 
58:3: Deliver me from the workers of lawlessness, And save me from men of blood. 
58:4: For behold, they hunt for my soul; Mighty men set upon me. Neither is it for my lawlessness, nor for my sin, O Lord; 
58:5: I run without lawlessness, and keep a straight path; Rise up and meet me, and see. 
58:6: And You, O Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, Give heed, and examine all the Gentiles; Do not be merciful to all who work lawlessness. (Pause) 
58:7: They shall return at evening; And hunger like dogs; and they shall encircle the city. 
58:8: Behold, they shall speak with their mouth, And a sword is in their lips; for they say, “Who hears?” 
58:9: But You, O Lord, shall laugh at them; You shall hold all the nations in contempt. 
58:10: O my Strength, I shall keep watch with You, For You are my protector, O God. 
58:11: As for my God, His mercy shall go before me; God will show it to me among my enemies. 
58:12: Do not kill them, lest they forget my people; Scatter them by Your power, And bring them down, O Lord my protector. 
58:13: For the sin of their mouth, for the word of their lips, Let them also be taken in their arrogance; And from their vow of evil and lie, their end will be proclaimed 
58:14: In a wrath of destruction, and let them be no more; And they shall know God is Jacob’s Lord, and the Lord of the ends of the earth. 
58:15: They shall return at evening, and hunger like dogs; And they shall encircle the city. 
58:16: They shall be scattered to and fro, so as to eat, But if they are not satisfied, they shall also grumble. 
58:17: But I will sing of Your power, And greatly rejoice in Your mercy in the morning; For You are my protector, And my refuge in the day of my affliction. 
58:18: You are my helper; I will sing to You; For You, O God, are my protector; O my God, You are my mercy.

