4:1: Boaz went up to the gate and sat there; and behold, the close relative of whom Boaz had spoken was passing. So Boaz said to him, “Come aside, sir, sit down here.” So he came aside and sat down. 
4:2: And Boaz took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, “Sit down here.” So they sat down. 
4:3: Then Boaz said to the relative, “As to the field which was our brother Elimelech’s, which was given to Naomi, now returning from the land of Moab; 
4:4: I said I would inform you, saying, ‘Buy it back in the presence of the inhabitants and the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it; but if you will not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know; for there is no one but you to redeem it, and I am next after you.’ ” And he said, “I am here, I will redeem it.” 
4:5: Then Boaz said, “On the day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi and from Ruth the Moabite woman, the wife of the deceased, you must take her as well, so as to raise up the name of the dead through his inheritance.” 
4:6: And the close relative said, “I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I ruin my own inheritance. You redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it.” 
4:7: Now, this was the legal custom in former times of Israel concerning redemption, and for a bargain, to confirm every word: A man took off his sandal and gave it to his neighbor who redeemed his right, and this was the testimony in Israel. 
4:8: And the close relative said to Boaz, “Buy my right of redemption for yourself.” So he took off his sandal and gave it to him. 
4:9: And Boaz said to the elders and all the people, “You are witnesses today that I have bought all that was Elimelech’s, and all that was Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, from the hand of Naomi. 
4:10: Moreover, I bought for myself, to be my wife, Ruth the Moabite woman, the wife of Mahlon, to raise up the name of the dead through his inheritance; so the name of the dead may not be cut-off from among his brethren and from the tribe of his people. You are witnesses today.” 
4:11: And all the people who were at the gate said, “We are witnesses.” And the elders said, “May the Lord make the woman who is coming to your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built the house of Israel and wrought mightily in Ephrathah. She will have a name in Bethlehem. 
4:12: And out of the seed which the Lord will give you from this young woman, may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah.” 
4:13: So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife; and when he went in to her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. 
4:14: Then the women said to Naomi, “Blessed be the Lord, who has not suffered a redeemer to fail you this day, even to make your name famous in Israel! 
4:15: And he will be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age; for your daughter-in-law, who loves you, who is better to you than seven sons, has borne him.” 
4:16: Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her bosom, and became a nurse for him. 
4:17: And the neighbors themselves gave him a name, saying, “A son is born to Naomi”; and they called his name Obed. This is the father of Jesse, the father of David. 
4:18: Now this is the genealogy of Perez: Perez begot Hezron; 
4:19: Hezron begot Ram, and Ram begot Amminadab; 
4:20: Amminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon; 
4:21: Salmon begot Boaz, and Boaz begot Obed; 
4:22: Obed begot Jesse, and Jesse begot David.

