3:1: Then Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, “Daughter, shall I not seek rest for you, so that it will be well with you? 
3:2: Now Boaz, whose young women you were with, is he not our relative? In fact, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. 
3:3: Therefore wash and anoint yourself, put on your best garment and go up to the threshing floor; but do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished drinking and eating. 
3:4: Then, when he lies down, take notice of the place where he lies. Then you shall go in, uncover his feet, and lie down; and he will tell you what you should do.” 
3:5: And Ruth said to her, “I will do everything you say.” 
3:6: So she went down to the threshing floor and did according to all her mother-in-law instructed her. 
3:7: And Boaz ate and his heart was cheerful. He went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain, and she came softly and uncovered his feet. 
3:8: Now it happened at midnight that the man was startled and disturbed; for there was a woman lying at his feet. 
3:9: And he said, “Who are you?” So she answered, “I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative.” 
3:10: Then Boaz said, “Blessed are you of the Lord God, daughter! For you have shown more kindness at the end than at the beginning, in that you did not go after young men, whether rich or poor. 
3:11: And now, daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all you request, for the whole tribe of my people knows that you are a virtuous woman. 
3:12: Now it is true I am a close relative; however, there is a relative closer than I. 
3:13: Stay here for the night. And in the morning, if he performs the duty of a kinsman for you, we will let him do it. But if he does not wish to perform the duty for you, then as the Lord lives, I will perform the duty for you. Lie down until morning.” 
3:14: So she lay at his feet until morning, and she rose before anyone could recognize another. Then Boaz said, “Do not let it be known that a woman came to the threshing floor.” 
3:15: And he said to her, “Bring the apron that is around you.” And as she held it, he measured six ephahs of barley, and laid it on her. Then she went into the city. 
3:16: So when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, “Is that you, my daughter?” Then Ruth told her all the man had done for her. 
3:17: And she said to her, “He gave me these six ephahs of barley; for he said to me, ‘Do not go empty-handed to your mother-in-law.’ ” 
3:18: Then she said, “Sit still, daughter, until you know how the matter will turn out; for the man will not rest until he has concluded the matter today.”

