7:1: Do no evil things, And evil will never overtake you. 
7:2: Stay away from wrongdoing, And it will turn away from you. 
7:3: My son, do not sow on the furrows of wrongdoing, And you will not reap the same things sevenfold. 
7:4: Do not seek authority from a lord, Nor the seat of honor from a king. 
7:5: Do not declare yourself righteous before a lord, Nor play the wise man before a king. 
7:6: Do not try to be a judge If you will not be strong enough to remove wrongdoing, Lest you respect the presence of the powerful, And compromise your integrity. 
7:7: Do not sin against the population of a city, Nor disgrace yourself before the people. 
7:8: Do not repeat your sin, For you will not be unpunished even for one. 
7:9: Do not say, “He will look upon the multitude of my gifts, And when I bring an offering to God Most High, He will accept it.” 
7:10: Do not be fainthearted in your prayer, And do not neglect to do alms. 
7:11: Do not laugh at a man who is in bitterness of soul, For there is One who humbles and exalts. 
7:12: Do not devise a lie against your brother, Nor do the same against a friend. 
7:13: Do not desire to tell any lie, For the habit of lying never does any good. 
7:14: Do not talk idly in the assembly of the elders, And do not repeat yourself in prayer. 
7:15: Do not hate hard work, especially farming, Which was created by the Most High. 
7:16: Do not number yourself among an assembly of sinners; Remember that wrath will not tarry long. 
7:17: Humble yourself greatly, For the punishment of the ungodly is fire and worms. 
7:18: Do not exchange a friend for money, Nor a genuine brother for the gold of Ophir. 
7:19: Do not ignore a wise and good wife, For her grace is worth more than gold. 
7:20: Do not mistreat a servant who does his work in truth, Nor a hired worker who devotes himself to you. 
7:21: Let your soul love an intelligent servant; Do not deprive him of his freedom. 
7:22: Do you have cattle? Take care of them; And if they are profitable to you, keep them. 
7:23: Do you have children? Correct them, And make them obey from their youth. 
7:24: Do you have daughters? Watch carefully over their chastity, And do not be too easy on them. 
7:25: Give a daughter in marriage, And you will have completed a great work; But give her to a man of understanding. 
7:26: Do you have a wife after your own heart? Do not reject her, But do not trust yourself to a wife whom you disregard. 
7:27: Honor your father with all your heart, And do not forget the birth pangs of your mother. 
7:28: Remember that you were begotten through them, And what can you give back to them To the degree they gave to you? 
7:29: Fear the Lord with all your soul And honor His priests. 
7:30: Love Him who made you, And do not forsake His ministers. 
7:31: Fear the Lord and honor His priests, And give them their portion as commanded: The first fruits, the trespass offering, The gift of the shoulder offering, The sacrifice of sanctification, And the first fruits of the holy things. 
7:32: Stretch forth your hand to the poor, That your blessing may be complete. 
7:33: Let the kindness of giving be shown In the presence of all the living, And do not withhold kindness from the dead. 
7:34: Do not withdraw yourself from those who weep, And mourn with those who mourn. 
7:35: Do not hesitate to visit a sick man, For by such visits you will be loved. 
7:36: With all your words, remember the time you will die, And you will never sin.

