47:1: Then after this Nathan rose up, To prophesy in the days of David. 
47:2: As the fat was divided from the peace offering, So David was separated from the sons of Israel. 
47:3: He played with lions as with young goats, And with bears as with lambs of sheep. 
47:4: Did he not slay a giant in his youth, And remove the disgrace from the people, When he took in his hand a stone for a sling, And struck down the arrogance of Goliath? 
47:5: For he called upon the Lord Most High, And strength was given to his right hand To defeat the mighty man in battle, To exalt the power of his people. 
47:6: So for his tens of thousands they glorified him And praised him for the blessings of the Lord, when they brought him a diadem of glory. 
47:7: For he destroyed his enemies all around, Reduced to nothing his enemies the Philistines, And crushed their power to this very day. 
47:8: In his every work, he gave thanks with a word of praise To the Holy One, the Most High; And He sang a hymn with all his heart, And loved his Maker. 
47:9: He placed psalm-singers before the altar, To make sweet melody with their voices. 
47:10: He gave dignity to the feasts, And set in order the appointed times throughout the year For them to praise His holy name, And for the sanctuary to resound from early morning. 
47:11: The Lord took away his sins, Exalted his power forever, And gave him a covenant of kings And a throne of glory in Israel. 
47:12: After him there arose his wise son, Who lodged in a broad space because of him. 
47:13: For Solomon reigned in days of peace, To whom God gave rest on every side, That he might establish a house for His name, And prepare a sanctuary to last forever. 
47:14: How wise you were in your youth; And filled with understanding like a river. 
47:15: Your soul covered the earth, And you were filled with the parables of riddles. 
47:16: Your name was known to islands far away, And you were loved for your peace 
47:17: And for your songs, proverbs and parables; Nations marveled at you because of your interpretations. 
47:18: In the name of the Lord God, Who is called the God of Israel, You collected gold like tin And multiplied silver like lead. 
47:19: But you laid down beside women And were enslaved by your body. 
47:20: You brought disgrace on your honor, And defiled your seed, So as to bring wrath upon your children; And they were pierced by your lack of good sense. 
47:21: Thus one kingdom became two, For out of Ephraim there began a disobedient kingdom. 
47:22: But the Lord did not abandon His mercy, Nor corrupt any of His words. Neither did He wipe away the descendants of His chosen one, Nor did He remove the seed of the one who loved Him. He gave a remnant to Jacob, And to David a root from his stock. 
47:23: When Solomon rested with his fathers, He left behind him one of his sons, Lacking in good sense and understanding, Rehoboam, who turned away the people by his counsel. 
47:24: There was also Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Who caused Israel to sin, And led Ephraim on the road to sin. Then their sins were multiplied exceedingly, So as to remove them from their land. 
47:25: They sought every wickedness, Until punishment came upon them.

