49:1: The remembrance of Josiah is like the composition of incense Prepared by the work of the perfumer. In every mouth it is sweet like honey, And like the music at a banquet with wine. 
49:2: He led in the conversion of the people, And he removed the abominations of lawlessness. 
49:3: He directed his heart to the Lord, And in days of lawlessness he strengthened godliness. 
49:4: Except for David, Hezekiah and Josiah, All offended continually, For they forsook the law of the Most High. The kings of Judah failed, 
49:5: For they gave their power to others And their glory to a foreign nation. 
49:6: They set fire to the chosen city of the sanctuary, And desolated her streets, 
49:7: According to the word of Jeremiah; For they did him evil, He who was sanctified as a prophet while still inside his mother, To root out, to afflict, and to destroy, And likewise to build and to plant. 
49:8: Ezekiel himself saw a vision of glory, Which the Lord showed him on a chariot of cherubim. 
49:9: For He remembered his enemies with a thunderstorm, And did good to those who directed their ways aright. 
49:10: May He indeed revive the bones Of the twelve prophets from their place. For they encouraged the people of Jacob, And redeemed them with steadfast hope. 
49:11: How shall we magnify Zerubbabel? He was surely like a seal upon the right hand, 
49:12: And so was Jeshua the son of Jozadak, Who in their days built the house, And raised up a holy temple to the Lord, One prepared unto eternal glory. 
49:13: There is the lasting memory of Nehemiah, Who raised for us the walls that had fallen; And he established gates and locks, And raised again our home sites. 
49:14: No one like Enoch was created upon the earth, For he himself was taken up from the earth. 
49:15: Neither has a man like Joseph been born, The leader of his brothers and the support of his people; And they watched over his bones. 
49:16: Shem and Seth were honored among men, And Adam over every living thing in creation.

