50:1: There was Simon, the high priest and son of Onias, Who repaired the house during his life, And strengthened the temple in his days. 
50:2: He also laid the foundation of the double high wall, The fortified wall surrounding the temple. 
50:3: In his days the cistern for the waters was dug, A reservoir like a sea in circumference. 
50:4: He was concerned about how to save his people from ruin, And he strengthened the city to withstand siege. 
50:5: So was he honored when the people gathered round, As he came out from behind the veil! 
50:6: Like the morning star in the midst of the clouds, Like the moon when it is full; 
50:7: Like the sun shining upon the temple of the Most High, And like the rainbow shining in clouds of glory; 
50:8: Like the bloom of the rose in the days of first fruits, Like lilies by a spring of water, Like a sprig of frankincense in the summer; 
50:9: Like fire and incense in the censer, Like a solid gold vessel decorated with every precious stone; 
50:10: Like an olive tree sprouting fresh fruit, And like a cypress tree rising into the clouds. 
50:11: When he took up a robe of honor, And was clothed with the perfection of boasting, In his ascent to the holy altar, He glorified the court of the sanctuary. 
50:12: When he received the portion from the hands of the priests, While standing by the hearth of the altar, A crown of brethren surrounding him, He was like a sapling of cedar in Lebanon; And they encircled him like the trunks of palm trees, 
50:13: All the sons of Aaron in their glory, And the offering to the Lord in their hands, Before all the assembly of Israel. 
50:14: Finishing the services at the altars, And arranging the offering to the Most High, the Almighty, 
50:15: He stretched out his hand to the cup, And poured a libation of the blood of the grapes. He poured it out on the foundation of the altar, A fragrant scent to the King of all, the Most High. 
50:16: Then the sons of Aaron cried out, Sounding out the trumpets of hammered work, A great noise to be heard, As a remembrance before the Most High. 
50:17: Then all the people hastened in common, And fell with their faces on the ground, To worship their Lord, the Almighty God, the Most High. 
50:18: The singers also praised Him with their voices, And their song was sweetened with a variety of sounds. 
50:19: The people also prayed to the Lord Most High, In prayer before the Merciful One, Until the order of the Lord was ended, And they finished His liturgy. 
50:20: Then going down he lifted up his hands Over the entire assembly of the children of Israel, And to boast in His name. 
50:21: Then they bowed down in worship a second time, To receive the blessing from the Most High. 
50:22: And now bless the God of all, Who does great things in every way, Who exalts our days from our birth, And deals with us according to His mercy. 
50:23: May He give us gladness of heart, And may there be peace in our days, In Israel as in the days of old. 
50:24: May He entrust with us His mercy, And let Him redeem us in our days. 
50:25: With two nations my soul is angered, And the third is not a nation: 
50:26: Those who reside on the mountain of Samaria and the Philistines, And the foolish people who dwell in Shechem. 
50:27: Jesus, son of Sirach, son of Eleazar the Jerusalemite, Who poured wisdom forth in this book, I inscribed instruction in understanding and knowledge. 
50:28: Blessed is he who will conduct himself by these, For by putting these things in his heart, He will be made wise. 
50:29: For if he does these things, He will grow strong in all things, For the light of the Lord is his path.

