9:1: Do not be jealous of the wife of your bosom, And so teach her an evil lesson about yourself. 
9:2: Do not give your soul to a woman, To let her trample on your strength. 
9:3: Do not meet with a woman who is a courtesan, Lest you fall into her snares. 
9:4: Do not associate with a dancing-girl, Lest you be caught in her schemes. 
9:5: Do not gaze at a virgin, Lest you stumble and pay damages for her. 
9:6: Do not give your soul to prostitutes, Lest you destroy your inheritance. 
9:7: Do not look around in the streets of a city, And do not wander about in its deserted sections. 
9:8: Turn your eye away from a woman with a shapely figure, And do not gaze at beauty belonging to another. Many have been led astray by the beauty of a woman, And erotic love is like a burning fire. 
9:9: Never dine with another man’s wife, And do not share in parties with her over wine; Lest your soul turn aside to her, And you slip and with your spirit fall into destruction. 
9:10: Do not forsake an old friend, For a new one is not equal with him. A new friend is like new wine; Drink it with pleasure only after it ages. 
9:11: Do not envy the honor given a sinner, For you do not know what his end will be. 
9:12: Do not delight in the pleasure of the ungodly; Remember, they will not be declared righteous even in Hades. 
9:13: Keep far away from a man who has the power to kill, And you will not be anxious about the fear of death. But if you come near him, do not offend him, Lest he take away your life. Know that you are stepping in the midst of snares, And walking about the battlements of a city. 
9:14: Evaluate your neighbors as best you can, And consult with those who are wise. 
9:15: Let your reasoning be with those who are wise, And let all your talk be about the law of the Most High. 
9:16: Let righteous men be your dinner companions, And let your boasting be in the fear of the Lord. 
9:17: A work will be praised for the skill of its craftsmen, And a wise leader of people for the skill of his words. 
9:18: A talkative man is regarded with fear in his city, And a man who is reckless in his speech will be hated.

