4:1: My son, do not deprive the poor of his living, And do not keep eyes in need waiting. 
4:2: Do not grieve a soul who is hungry, Nor provoke to anger a man in despair. 
4:3: Do not trouble a heart that was made resentful, And do not put off the gift of a man in need. 
4:4: Do not reject a suppliant who is afflicted, Nor turn your face away from a poor man. 
4:5: Do not turn your eye away from a needy man, And do not give a man occasion to curse you; 
4:6: For if he curses you in the bitterness of his soul, His Maker will hear his prayer. 
4:7: Make yourself beloved in the assembly, And bow your head to a great man. 
4:8: Incline your ear to a poor man, And answer him peaceably and with gentleness. 
4:9: Deliver a person who has been wronged from the hand of the wrongdoer, And do not be fainthearted when you judge his case. 
4:10: Be like a father to orphans and like a husband to their mother; And you will be like a son of the Most High, And He will love you more than your mother. 
4:11: Wisdom exalts her children, And lay holds of those who seek her. 
4:12: Whoever loves her loves life, And those who come to her early in the morning Will be filled with gladness. 
4:13: He who holds fast to her will inherit glory, And the Lord blesses every place she enters. 
4:14: Those who serve her will minister to the Holy One, And the Lord loves those who love her. 
4:15: He who obeys her will judge the nations; And he that gives heed to her will live with confidence. 
4:16: If he trusts in her, he will inherit her, And his posterity will be in possession of her. 
4:17: At first she will walk with him on disturbing paths, And bring fear and dread upon him; And she will torment him with her discipline, Until she can trust his soul, And test him with her ordinances. 
4:18: Then she will come straight back to him, And will gladden him, and reveal her secrets to him. 
4:19: If he wanders away, she will forsake him, And hand him over to his ruin. 
4:20: Watch for a proper opportunity and keep yourself from evil; And do not bring shame upon your soul. 
4:21: For there is a shame that brings sin, And there is a shame which is glory and grace. 
4:22: Do not show partiality to someone to your own harm, And do not let your respect for another cause you to fall. 
4:23: Do not withhold a word in time of need; 
4:24: For wisdom is made known by a word, And instruction by a word of the tongue. 
4:25: Do not speak against the truth, And do not be put to shame by your ignorance. 
4:26: Do not be ashamed to confess your sins, And do not exercise force against the current of a river. 
4:27: Do not subject yourself to a foolish man, And do not show partiality to a ruler. 
4:28: Fight to the death for the truth, And the Lord God will fight for you. 
4:29: Do not be rash with your tongue, And sluggish and neglectful in your works. 
4:30: Do not be like a lion in your home, And act in pretense with your servants. 
4:31: Do not let your hand be extended to receive, And shut when you should repay.

