38:1: Honor the physician with the honor due him, And also according to your need of him, For the Lord created him. 
38:2: Healing comes from the Most High, And he will receive a gift from the king. 
38:3: The physician’s skill will lift up his head, And he shall be admired in the presence of the great. 
38:4: The Lord created medicines from the earth, And a sensible man will not loathe them. 
38:5: Is not water made sweet by wood, That its strength might be known? 
38:6: And He gave skill to men, That He might be glorified in His wonders. 
38:7: By them He heals and takes away pain, A druggist making a compound of them. 
38:8: God’s works are never finished, And from Him health is upon the face of the earth. 
38:9: My son, do not be negligent when you are sick, But pray to the Lord and He will heal you. 
38:10: Depart from transgression and direct your hands aright; And cleanse your heart from every sin. 
38:11: Offer a sweet-smelling sacrifice, And a memorial of the finest wheat flour; And pour oil on your offering, as if you are soon to die. 
38:12: And keep in touch with your physician, For the Lord created him; And do not let him leave you, For you need him. 
38:13: There is a time when success is also in their hands, 
38:14: For they will pray to the Lord, To give them success in bringing relief and healing, For the sake of preserving your life. 
38:15: He who sins before the One who made him, May he fall into the hands of a physician. 
38:16: My son, let your tears fall for the dead, And as one suffering grievously, begin the lament. With the honor due him, wrap his body And take care of his burial. 
38:17: Weep bitterly and lament fervently; Do your mourning according to what he deserves, For a day or two to avoid slander; Then be comforted for your grief. 
38:18: For grief is a cause of death, And a grief-stricken heart will sap your strength. 
38:19: Grief also abides in misery, And the life of a poor man weighs down his heart. 
38:20: Do not give your heart to grief; Drive it away, remembering the end of life. 
38:21: Do not forget, for there is no coming back; And you cannot help the dead man by grieving, But will only injure yourself. 
38:22: Remember my end, since yours is also like it: “Mine yesterday, yours today.” 
38:23: When the dead man is at rest, let his remembrance cease, And be comforted for him in the exodus of his spirit. 
38:24: The wisdom of a scribe depends on his opportunity for quiet, For when he has little business, he will be made wise. 
38:25: How will he who handles the plow be made wise? For he boasts in the shaft of the goad, And he drives oxen and is occupied with their labors, And his talk is about young bulls. 
38:26: His heart is set on plowing furrows, And he keeps watch to feed his heifers. 
38:27: The same is true for every craftsman and architect Who works by night as well as by day— Those who engrave the signets of seals— He is diligent to make great variety; His heart set on creating a lifelike image, And keeping watch to perfect his work. 
38:28: So too is the blacksmith sitting near the anvil, Examining closely his iron works, The breath of the fire melting his flesh, As he struggles with the heat of the furnace. He inclines his ear to the sound of the hammer, And his eyes are focused on the likeness of the object. He sets his heart on the completion of his works, And keeps watch to perfect its detail. 
38:29: The potter as well, sitting by his work, And turning the potter’s wheel with his feet, He is always careful about the quality of his work, And also the quantity of his output. 
38:30: With his arm he molds the clay, And with his feet he curves it. His heart is set on finishing the glazing, And he is careful to clean the furnace. 
38:31: All these trust in their hands, And each is skilled in his work. 
38:32: Without them a city will not be livable, Nor will anyone sojourn or live there. 
38:33: Yet they will not be sought out for the council of the people, And they will not gain prominence in the assembly. They do not sit in the judge’s seat, Nor will they understand the sentence of judgment. 
38:34: They cannot give instruction in discipline or judgment, Nor will they be found using parables; But they will keep the fabric of the world stable, And their prayer is in the practice of their craft.

