8:1: Do not contend sharply with a powerful man, Lest you fall into his hands. 
8:2: Do not quarrel with a rich man, Lest he resist your force, For gold has destroyed many, And perverted the hearts of kings. 
8:3: Do not contend sharply with a talkative man, And do not heap wood on his fire. 
8:4: Do not jest with an uncultivated man, Lest your forefathers be insulted. 
8:5: Do not insult a man who turns away from sin; Remember that we are all valuable. 
8:6: Do not dishonor a man in his old age, For some of us are growing old as well. 
8:7: Do not rejoice over any dead person; Remember that we all must die. 
8:8: Do not disregard a saying of the wise, But be conversant with their proverbs; Because from them you will gain instruction, And how to serve noble people. 
8:9: Do not miss a saying of the old, For they themselves learned from their fathers; Because from them you will gain understanding, And be able to give an answer in time of need. 
8:10: Do not kindle the coals of a sinner, For you may be burned by his flame. 
8:11: Do not let the presence of an insolent man Arouse you from your seat, Lest he lie in wait as an ambush against your words. 
8:12: Do not lend to a man stronger than you; But if you do, consider it lost. 
8:13: Do not give surety beyond your ability to pay; But if you do give surety, be as careful as one who has to pay. 
8:14: Do not go to law against a judge, For they will decide for him because of his reputation. 
8:15: Do not travel on a journey with a reckless man, Lest he weigh you down; For he will do his will, And you will perish with him in his folly. 
8:16: Do not cause a fight with an angry man, And do not go into a lonely place with him, Because murder is as nothing in his eyes, And where there is no help, he will strike you down. 
8:17: Do not consult with a fool, For he will not keep a matter confidential. 
8:18: Do nothing confidential in the presence of a stranger, For you do not know what he will give birth to. 
8:19: Do not open your heart to everyone, Lest unkindness be shown to you.

