42:1: Do not be ashamed of the following things, And do not let partiality lead you to sin: 
42:2: Of the Law and covenant of the Most High, And of a judgment to acquit an ungodly man; 
42:3: Of keeping accounts with a partner or a traveling companion, And of dividing an inheritance among friends; 
42:4: Of accurate scales and balances, And the acquisition of much or little; 
42:5: Of profit from business with merchants, And of much discipline of children, And of making the sides of an evil servant bleed. 
42:6: Where there is an evil wife, a seal is good; And where there are many hands, lock things up. 
42:7: Whatever you deliver, do it by number or weight; And put in writing everything you give or receive. 
42:8: Do not be ashamed of the instructing of the unwise and foolish, Or of the extremely old man who passes judgment on the young; Then you will be truly instructed, And approved before all men. 
42:9: A daughter keeps her father secretly wakeful, For worry over her takes away his sleep; Lest in her youth she passes the time to marry, And lest in her marriage she be hated; 
42:10: In her virginity lest she be defiled Or become pregnant in her father’s house; Having a husband, lest she be unfaithful, Or though married, lest she be childless. 
42:11: Keep a strict watch over a headstrong daughter, Lest she make you a laughingstock to your enemies, A source of gossip in the city And notorious among the people, And a disgrace to you before the great multitude. 
42:12: Do not look upon anyone for beauty, And do not sit in the midst of women. 
42:13: For a moth comes out of garments, And the evil of a woman comes from a woman. 
42:14: The evil of a man is better Than a woman who does what is good, Yet brings shame and disgrace. 
42:15: I shall now remember the works of the Lord, And by the words of the Lord, I shall describe His works that I see. 
42:16: The sun gives light and looks down on everything, And its work is full of the Lord’s glory. 
42:17: The Lord did not enable His saints To describe all His wonders, Which the Lord Almighty established, That the universe might be established in His glory. 
42:18: He traced out the abyss and the human heart, And understands their craftiness; For the Most High possesses all knowledge, And sees into the signs of an age. 
42:19: He proclaims what has been and what shall be, And reveals the footstep of hidden things. 
42:20: No thought escapes Him, Not even one word is hidden from Him. 
42:21: He has adorned the mighty works of His wisdom, For He is from everlasting to everlasting; Nothing can be added or taken away, And He needs no one to be His counselor. 
42:22: How precious are all His works, And how sparkling to behold. 
42:23: All these things live and endure forever, for every need, And all are obedient. 
42:24: All things are in pairs, one opposite the other, And He made nothing incomplete. 
42:25: One thing strengthens the good of another, And who can have enough of beholding His glory?

