3:1: Give heed to me, O children, for I am your father, And do what I tell you, that you may be saved. 
3:2: For the Lord honored the father over the children, And strengthened the judgment of the mother over her sons. 
3:3: He who honors his father atones for his sins; 
3:4: And he who honors his mother Is like one who stores up treasure. 
3:5: He who honors his father Will be gladdened by his own children, And when he prays, he will be heard. 
3:6: He who honors his father will have a long life, And he who obeys the Lord will give rest to his mother; 
3:7: And he will serve his parents as his masters. 
3:8: Honor your father and mother in word and deed, That a blessing may come upon you from him. 
3:9: For the blessing of a father establishes the houses of the children, But the curse of a mother uproots their foundations. 
3:10: Do not glory in the dishonor of your father, For your father’s dishonor is no glory to you. 
3:11: For the glory of a man is from the honor of his father, And it is a disgrace for children to dishonor their mother. 
3:12: My son, help your father in his old age, And do not grieve him in his life; 
3:13: And if his understanding fails, be considerate, And do not dishonor him in your prime. 
3:14: For kindness to a father will not be forgotten, And it will be credited to you instead of your sins. 
3:15: It will be remembered in the day of your affliction, Thus your sins will melt away like frost in warm weather. 
3:16: He who forsakes his father is like a blasphemer, And he who provokes his mother to wrath is cursed by God. 
3:17: My son, accomplish your works with gentleness, And you will be loved by people the Lord accepts. 
3:18: The greater you are, the more humble you must be, And you will find grace before the Lord; 
3:19: Because great is the power of the Lord, And He is honored by the humble. 
3:20: Do not seek things too difficult for you, Nor examine what is beyond your strength. 
3:21: Think about what is commanded you, For you do not need what the Lord keeps hidden. 
3:22: Do not meddle in what is none of your business, For things beyond human insight have been shown to you. 
3:23: Speculation has led many astray, And evil suppositions have caused their minds to slip and fall. 
3:24: A hard heart will suffer ruin in the end, And he who loves danger will perish in it. 
3:25: A hard heart will be weighed down with pains, And the sinner will add sin to sin. 
3:26: There is no healing to aid an arrogant man, For a plant of evil has taken root in him. 
3:27: The heart of an intelligent man will ponder a parable, And the ear of a pupil is a wise man’s desire. 
3:28: Water will quench a blazing fire, And almsgiving will atone for sins. 
3:29: He who repays kindnesses is mindful of the hereafter, And at the time of his fall he will find support.

