45:1: He brought from him a man of mercy, Who found favor in the eyes of all flesh, Beloved by God and man, Moses, whose remembrance is blessed. 
45:2: He made him equal in glory to the saints, And magnified him in the fears of his enemies. 
45:3: With his words he caused signs to cease, And the Lord honored him in the presence of kings. He gave him commands for His people, And showed him His glory. 
45:4: He sanctified him because of his faithfulness and gentleness, And chose him out of all flesh. 
45:5: He caused him to hear His voice, Then led him into the darkness And gave him the commandments face to face: The law of life and knowledge, To teach Jacob His covenant, And His judgments to Israel. 
45:6: He exalted Aaron, a holy man like himself, His brother from the tribe of Levi. 
45:7: He established an everlasting covenant with him, And gave him the priesthood of the people. He blessed him with orderly behavior, And covered him with an adornment of glory. 
45:8: He clothed him with the consummation of boasting, And confirmed him with instruments of strength: The linen breeches, the long robe and the ephod. 
45:9: And he encircled him with tassels, With many golden bells all around, To sound their ring at his steps, Making their ringing sound As he walked in the temple, A reminder for the children of his people. 
45:10: With a holy garment, with gold and hyacinth And purple cloth with embroidered work, With the oracle of judgment, the Urim and Thummin, With woven scarlet, by the work of an artisan, 
45:11: With entwined scarlet, the work of a skilled craftsman, With precious stones engraved like a seal, In a setting of gold, in a cut stone, a jeweler’s work, With a memorial in engraved letters, According to the number of the tribes of Israel. 
45:12: He set a golden crown over the priestly turban, A figure of the holy seal, a distinction of honor, The work of an expert, Things desirable to the eyes, richly adorned! 
45:13: There was never so much beauty before his time. No outsider was ever clothed in these garments, Only his sons and his offspring perpetually. 
45:14: His sacrifices shall be a whole burnt offering, Perpetually, twice every day. 
45:15: Moses ordained him and anointed him with holy oil. It was an eternal covenant for him, And for his seed forever, To minister to the Lord and serve as priest; To bless His people in His name. 
45:16: He chose him from all the living To offer sacrifices to the Lord, Incense and sweet-smelling offerings as a remembrance, To make atonement for Your people. 
45:17: He gave him authority with His commandments, In covenants of judgments, To teach Jacob the testimonies, And to enlighten Israel in His law. 
45:18: Outsiders conspired against him And were jealous of him in the desert, The men who gathered with Dothan and Abiram, And even the company of Korah with anger and wrath. 
45:19: The Lord saw and was not pleased, And they were brought to an end by the anger of His wrath. He performed wonders against them To consume them in His flaming fire. 
45:20: He also brought Aaron glory, And gave him an inheritance. He divided the first fruits for him; He prepared bread in abundance from the first fruits. 
45:21: For they will eat the sacrifices to the Lord, Which He gave to him and to his seed. 
45:22: But in the land of the people, He will have no inheritance, And there is no portion for him among the people; For the Lord Himself is his portion and his inheritance. 
45:23: Then Phineas the son of Eleazar is the third in glory, When he showed zeal in the fear of the Lord; And he stood fast when the people turned away, By the goodness of the eagerness of his soul, And he made atonement for Israel. 
45:24: Therefore He established a covenant of peace with him, To be in charge of the sanctuary And leader of his people, That the priesthood might be with him and his seed forever. 
45:25: A covenant was also established with David, The son of Jesse from the tribe of Judah. The heritage of the king is from son to son only, And the heritage of Aaron is for his seed. 
45:26: May He give you wisdom in your heart, To judge His people in righteousness, That their good things might not disappear, And their glory throughout their generations.

