29:1: He who shows mercy will lend to his neighbor, And he who makes him strong with a helping hand Keeps the commandments. 
29:2: Lend to your neighbor in the time of his need, And when you borrow repay your neighbor on time. 
29:3: Keep your word and be trustworthy with him, And on every occasion you will find what you need. 
29:4: Many men, supposing a loan is like a windfall, Cause trouble to those who help them. 
29:5: He will kiss the lender’s hand until he receives the loan, And to get his neighbor’s money he will lower his voice; But at the time of repayment, he will put it off, And repays only with words of indifference, And blames the times. 
29:6: If the lender is firm with him, he will barely get back half the loan, And will consider it as a windfall. If the borrower does not repay anything, He has robbed him of his money, And needlessly made him an enemy. The lender will then repay him with curses and insults, And dishonor instead of glory. 
29:7: Many men, not because they are evil, Have refused to lend; They have become afraid of being needlessly robbed. 
29:8: However, be patient with a man of humble circumstances, And do not keep him waiting for your alms. 
29:9: Because of the commandment, help a poor man, And in his need, do not turn him away empty. 
29:10: Lose your money for the sake of a brother and friend, Do not let it rust under a stone and be lost. 
29:11: Lay up your treasure according to the commandments of the Most High, For this will profit you more than gold. 
29:12: Store alms in your storerooms, And they will deliver you from all affliction. 
29:13: More than a mighty shield and better than a strong spear, Almsgiving will fight for you against your enemy. 
29:14: A good man will go surety for his neighbor, But a man who has lost his sense of shame Will forsake him. 
29:15: Do not forget the kindness his surety has done for you, For he has given his life for you. 
29:16: A sinner will overthrow the good things of his surety, And the ungrateful man will forsake his deliverer on purpose. 
29:17: Suretyship has destroyed many prosperous men, And tossed them about like waves of the sea. 
29:18: Suretyship has driven influential men from their homes, And they have wandered among foreign nations. 
29:19: The sinner who chances upon suretyship, And the man who pursues profit taking will fall into judgment. 
29:20: Help your neighbor according to your ability, But watch out for yourself lest you fall. 
29:21: The principle of life is water, bread and clothing, And a house that offers privacy. 
29:22: The life of a poor man under a shelter of logs Is better Than great food in another man’s house. 
29:23: Be content with little or much, And you will not hear your guest insulted. 
29:24: Going from house to house is a bad way to live, And where you are visiting, you dare not open your mouth. 
29:25: You will entertain guests and give drink to the ungrateful, And besides this you will hear bitter words: 
29:26: “Come here, stranger; set the table, And if you have any food at hand, feed me.” 
29:27: “Get out, stranger, somebody more important is here; My brother has come as my guest; I need my house.” 
29:28: These things are hard for a sensible man to take: The rebuke of a household and the abuse of a creditor.

