51:1: I will give thanks to You, O Lord and King, And I will praise You as my God and Savior. I give thanks to Your name. 
51:2: For You have been my protector and helper, And You redeemed my body from destruction, And from the snare of a slanderous tongue, From the lips of those who work falsehood. And before all those who stood by, You were a helper, And You redeemed me, 
51:3: According to Your great mercy and Your name, From being devoured as one prepared for food, At the hands of those who sought my soul, From many afflictions that I endured, 
51:4: From suffocation by an encircling fire, And from the midst of a fire I did not start, 
51:5: From the depths of the belly of Hades, And from the tongue of the unclean and the word of a liar— 
51:6: The slander of an unrighteous tongue before the king. My soul drew near unto death, And my life was near Hades below. 
51:7: They surrounded me on all sides, And there was no one to help me. I looked for the help of men, but there was none. 
51:8: Then I remembered Your mercy, O Lord, And Your work which is from of old, For You lift up those who wait upon You, And You save them from the hand of their enemies. 
51:9: I sent up my supplication from the earth, And prayed about the instability caused by death. 
51:10: I called upon the Lord, the Father of my Lord, That He might not forsake me in the days of affliction, When I am helpless against the arrogant. I will praise Your name continually, And I will sing a hymn with thanksgiving. 
51:11: My prayer was heard, For You saved me from destruction, And rescued me from a time of evil. 
51:12: Therefore I will thank and praise You, And I will bless the name of the Lord. 
51:13: While I was still young, before I went on my travels, I sought wisdom openly in my prayer. 
51:14: Before the temple I prayed about her, And I will search for her to the end of my life. 
51:15: From blossom to ripening grapes, My heart rejoiced in her. My foot embarked on her righteous path, And from my youth I hunted for her. 
51:16: I inclined my ear a little and received her. I found much instruction for myself. 
51:17: There was progress for me in her. To Him who gives me wisdom I will give glory. 
51:18: For I purposed to practice wisdom; And I was zealous for the good, And was not put to shame. 
51:19: My soul strove earnestly for her, And I examined myself closely in my performance of the law. I stretched out my hands to the heights, And mourned my ignorance of her. 
51:20: I directed my soul to her, And in purification I found her. I acquired a heart for her from the beginning; Therefore, I was not forsaken. 
51:21: My heart was stirred to search for her, And therefore I gained a good possession. 
51:22: The Lord gave me a tongue as my reward, And I will praise Him with it. 
51:23: Draw near to me, untaught ones, And lodge in my school. 
51:24: Why do you say that you are lacking in these things, Yet you let your souls thirst exceedingly? 
51:25: I opened my mouth and said, “Gain wisdom for yourselves without money. 
51:26: Place your neck under her yoke, And let your soul receive her instruction. She is near that you might find her. 
51:27: See with your own eyes that I labored little, But found much rest for myself. 
51:28: Partake of instruction with a great amount of silver, And gain much gold with it. 
51:29: May your soul be gladdened by His mercy, And may you not be put to shame when you praise Him! 
51:30: Do your work before the appointed time, And He will give your reward in His appointed time.”

