26:1: Happy is the husband of a good wife; The number of his days will be doubled. 
26:2: A courageous wife makes her husband glad, And his years will be full of peace. 
26:3: A good wife is a good portion, And she will be given in the portion Of those who fear the Lord. 
26:4: The good heart of a rich or a poor man Is a cheerful face at all times. 
26:5: My heart fears because of three things, And I pray to God concerning a fourth: The slander of a city, the gathering of a mob, And a false accusation—all these are worse than death. 
26:6: There is also pain of heart and sorrow When a wife is jealous over another woman, And a tongue-lashing makes it known to all. 
26:7: An evil wife is like an ox-yoke that shakes to and fro; And to take hold of her is like grabbing a scorpion. 
26:8: A drunken wife is very wrathful, And she will not conceal her shame. 
26:9: The fornication of a wife will beknown By her haughty looks and her eyelids. 
26:10: Keep strong watch over a headstrong daughter, Lest she finds some liberty and makes the most of it. 
26:11: Be on guard against her shameless eye, And do not be amazed if she trespasses against You. 
26:12: Her mouth will open like a thirsty traveler, And drink from any water nearby. She will sit down before every tent peg, And open her quiver to any arrow. 
26:13: A wife’s grace will delight her husband, And her skill will put fat on his bones. 
26:14: A silent wife is a gift from the Lord, And there is nothing worth as much as a disciplined soul. 
26:15: A modest wife is blessing upon blessing, And there is no scale adequate to weigh a self-controlled soul. 
26:16: Like the sun rising in the Lord’s heaven Is the beauty of a good wife in the ordering of her house. 
26:17: Like a lamp shining on the holy lampstand, Is the beauty of a countenance in the prime of life. 
26:18: Beautiful feet with a steady heart are like golden pillars on a silver base. 
26:19: My heart is grieved by two things, And because of a third, anger arises within me: A man of war in want because of poverty; Men of intelligence who suffer contempt; And a man who turns back from righteousness to sin. The Lord will prepare this one for the sword. 
26:20: With difficulty a merchant will deliver himself from wrongdoing, And a peddler will not be acquitted from sin.

