16:1: Do not desire a multitude of useless children, Nor rejoice in ungodly sons. 
16:2: If they multiply, do not rejoice over them, If the fear of the Lord is not in them. 
16:3: Do not trust in their life, Nor pay attention to their multitude; For one godly child is better than a thousand. And it is better to die childless than to have ungodly children. 
16:4: For from one child with wisdom a city will be filled with people, But a tribe of lawless men will make it desolate. 
16:5: My eyes have seen many such things, And my ear has heard worse things than this. 
16:6: In the congregation of sinners, a fire will be kindled, And in a disobedient nation, wrath is kindled. 
16:7: There was no atonement for the ancient giants, Who turned away from God because of their strength. 
16:8: He did not spare the cities where Lot sojourned, Whom He detested because of their arrogance. 
16:9: He had no mercy on a nation destined for destruction, Who were taken away because of their sins. 
16:10: The same thing happened to the six hundred thousand foot-soldiers, Who gathered together in their hardness of heart. 
16:11: Even if there was only one stiff-necked man, It would be a marvel if he were to remain unpunished. For mercy and wrath belong to the Lord, And He is mighty to forgive; And He pours out wrath. 
16:12: As great as His mercy, so also great is His rebuke, And He will judge a man according to his works. 
16:13: A sinner will not escape with his spoils, And the patience of a godly man will not fare badly. 
16:14: He will make a place for every act of mercy. Each will find this out according to his works. 
16:15: Do not say, “I will be hidden from the Lord, And who will remember me from on high? I will not be known among so many people, For what is my soul in comparison to the immeasurable creation? 
16:16: Behold, heaven and the highest heaven, The abyss and the earth will be shaken at His visitation. 
16:17: At the same time the mountains and the foundations of the earth Will shake with trembling when He looks upon them. 
16:18: No heart will able to think about these things, And who will ponder His ways? 
16:19: There will be a sudden blast of wind which no man will see, For most of His works will be done in secret. 
16:20: Who will proclaim His works of righteousness, Or who will endure them? For His covenant is far off.” 
16:21: This is what a man thinks Who is diminished in heart and without discernment, Who is deceived and thinks foolishly. 
16:22: Listen to me, my son, and gain knowledge, And pay close attention to my words in your heart. 
16:23: I will reveal instruction with balance, And I will proclaim knowledge with exactness. 
16:24: By the judgment of the Lord, His works exist from the beginning, And from their creation, He determined their boundaries. 
16:25: He ordered His works forever, And their principles according to their generations. They neither hunger nor grow weary, And they do not cease from their works. 
16:26: Each does not afflict the one close to him, And they will never disobey His word. 
16:27: After this the Lord looked upon the earth, And filled it with His good things. 
16:28: He covered its surface with the life of every living creature, And to it they will return again.

