28:1: He who seeks revenge will find it from the Lord, And He will surely punish his sins. 
28:2: Forgive a wrong done you by your neighbor; Then your sins will be pardoned when you pray. 
28:3: Can a man preserve wrath against his neighbor, And still seek healing from the Lord? 
28:4: Can he show no mercy toward a man like himself, And still beg God for mercy for himself? 
28:5: If he being flesh keeps his anger continually, Who will atone for his sins? 
28:6: Remember the end of your life, And cease from enmity; Remember destruction and death, And stand fast in the commandments. 
28:7: Remember the commandments, And do not vent your wrath against your neighbor; Remember the covenant of the Most High, And overlook faults. 
28:8: Refrain from quarreling and you will decrease your sins, For a man who is hot-tempered will kindle quarreling. 
28:9: A sinful man will trouble his friends, And among those who live in peace he will inject unfriendliness. 
28:10: The heat of a fire will be kindled according to the amount of wood; So also the heat of a fire will be kindled according to the obstinacy of quarreling. According to the strength of a man, so his anger shall be; And according to his wealth, he will increase his wrath. 
28:11: A hasty quarrel kindles a fire, And a vigorous quarrel sheds blood. 
28:12: If you blow on a spark, it will kindle a fire, But if you spit on it, it will be quenched; Yet both come out of your mouth. 
28:13: Curse a slanderous and deceitful man, For he has destroyed many who were at peace. 
28:14: Slander has unsettled many, And scattered them from nation to nation; And it has destroyed strong cities, And overturned the houses of great men. 
28:15: Slander has driven away courageous women, And robbed them of their labors. 
28:16: He who devotes himself to slander will not find rest, Nor shall he dwell in quietness. 
28:17: The blow from a whip causes a wound, But a blow from the tongue breaks bones. 
28:18: Many have fallen by the edge of the sword, But not so many as those who have fallen because of the tongue. 
28:19: Blessed is the man who is sheltered from it, Who has not passed through the anger of the tongue; Who does not drag its yoke, And is not bound by its chains. 
28:20: For its yoke is a yoke of iron, And its chains are chains of bronze. 
28:21: Its death is an evil death, And Hades is preferable to it. 
28:22: An evil tongue will not prevail over the godly, And they will not be burned in its flame. 
28:23: Those who forsake the Lord will fall into it, And among them it will be kindled; And it will not be quenched. It will set upon them like a lion, And like a leopard, it will mangle them. 
28:24: See that you fence in your possessions with thorns; Lock up your silver and gold. 
28:25: Make balances and scales for your words, And bar and bolt the door of your mouth. 
28:26: Beware lest you make a slip with your tongue, Lest you fall victim before him who lies in wait.

