1:1: All wisdom comes from the Lord, And is with Him forever. 
1:2: Who can count the sand of the seas, The drops of rain, and the days of eternity? 
1:3: Who can search out the height of heaven, The breadth of the earth, the abyss and wisdom? 
1:4: Wisdom was created before all things, And the insight of prudence was from eternity. 
1:5: To whom has the root of wisdom been revealed? And who has come to know her great deeds? 
1:6: There is one who is wise and feared exceedingly, He who sits upon His throne. 
1:7: The Lord himself created wisdom. He saw and numbered her, And poured her out on all His works, 
1:8: In the midst of all flesh according to His gift; And He provided her for those who love Him. 
1:9: The fear of the Lord is glory and boasting, And gladness and a crown of rejoicing. 
1:10: The fear of the Lord will cheer the heart, And will give gladness, joy and a long life. 
1:11: For those who fear the Lord, it shall be well to the utmost, And on the day of his death, he will be blessed. 
1:12: The beginning of wisdom is to fear the Lord, And she was joined with the faithful in the womb. 
1:13: She constructed a foundation of life among men, And will be trusted among their seed. 
1:14: The gratification of wisdom is to fear the Lord, And she intoxicates them with her fruits. 
1:15: She will fill every house of theirs with objects of desire, And their storehouses with her harvest. 
1:16: The fear of the Lord is the crown of wisdom, Making peace and soundness of health to flourish. 
1:17: The Lord saw and numbered her, And poured out the power of comprehension; And He exalted the glory of those who hold fast to her. 
1:18: The root of wisdom is to fear the Lord, And her branches are length of days. 
1:19: Unjust anger cannot be justified, For anger’s decisive influence causes his fall. 
1:20: A patient man will hold fast until the proper time, Then afterwards gladness shall burst forth for him. 
1:21: He shall conceal his words until the proper time, And the lips of many will tell of his understanding. 
1:22: In the treasures of wisdom are the parables of knowledge, But godliness is an abomination to a sinner. 
1:23: If you desire wisdom, keep the commandments, And the Lord will supply it to you. 
1:24: For the fear of the Lord is wisdom and instruction, And His good pleasure is faith and gentleness. 
1:25: Do not disobey the fear of the Lord, And do not come to Him with a divided heart. 
1:26: Do not be a hypocrite in the sight of men, And be careful with your lips. 
1:27: Do not exalt yourself, lest you fall, And bring dishonor to your soul. The Lord shall reveal your secrets, And in the midst of the assembly He will strike you down, Because you did not come in the fear of the Lord, And your heart was full of deceit.

