6:1: Do not exalt yourself with your own counsel, Lest your soul be torn in pieces as by a bull. 
6:3: You will devour your leaves and lose your fruit, And be left like a withered tree. 
6:4: An evil soul will destroy him who possesses it, And make him an object of malignant joy to his enemies. 
6:5: Pleasant speech will multiply his friends, And a gracious tongue will multiply many kind greetings. 
6:6: Let those who live at peace with you be many, But let your counselors be one in a thousand. 
6:7: If you gain a friend, gain hemin testing, And do not be in a hurry to trust him. 
6:8: For there is a friend who is such to his own advantage, But he will not remain beside you in the day of your affliction. 
6:9: There is also a friend who changes into an enemy, And will reveal a quarrel to your disgrace. 
6:10: Again, there is a friend who isa companion at table, But will not stand by you in your day of trouble. 
6:11: Further, when you prosper, he will be like you And speak boldly to your servants; 
6:12: But if you are brought low, he will be against you, And will hide himself from your presence. 
6:13: Stay away from your enemies, And hold on to your friends. 
6:14: A faithful friend is a strong shelter, And he who finds one finds a treasure. 
6:15: There is nothing that can take the place of a faithful friend, And there is no way to measure his worth. 
6:16: A faithful friend is a medicine of life, And those who fear the Lord will find him. 
6:17: He who fears the Lord guides his friendship rightly, Because as he is, so also is his neighbor. 
6:18: My son, from your youth up, choose instruction, And you will find wisdom also into old age. 
6:19: Come to her as one who plows and sows, And wait expectantly for her good fruits; For in her work you will labor a little while, Then you will quickly eat of her fruit. 
6:20: She is very harsh on the undisciplined, And on the one who lacks the heart to continue with her. 
6:21: She will be like a heavy stone of trial upon him, And he will not delay to throw her off. 
6:22: For wisdom is like her name and is not manifest to many. 
6:23: Listen, my son, and accept my judgment, And do not reject my advice. 
6:24: Put your feet into her fetters and your neck into her collar. 
6:25: Put your shoulder under her and carry her, And do not be angry with her bonds. 
6:26: Come to her with all your soul, And keep her ways with all your strength. 
6:27: Search for and seek her out, And she will become known to you; And when you become self-controlled, do not let her go. 
6:28: For in the end you will find her rest, And she will turn to you in gladness. 
6:29: Then her fetters will be as a strong protection for you, And her collar a glorious robe. 
6:30: For there is a golden adornment upon her, And her bonds are a blue thread. 
6:31: You will wear her as a glorious robe, And put her on yourself as a crown of exceeding joy. 
6:32: If you are willing, my son, you will be taught, And if you apply yourself, you will be prudent. 
6:33: If you love to listen, you will wait with anticipation, And if you incline your ear, you will be wise. 
6:34: Stand in an assembly of elders, And who is wise? Attach yourself to him. 
6:35: Desire to listen to every divine narrative, And do not let proverbs of understanding escape you. 
6:36: If you see a man who has understanding, Rise early in the morning, And let your foot wear out the threshold of his door. 
6:37: Set your mind on the ordinances of the Lord, And practice His commandments. He will strengthen your heart continually, And the desire for wisdom will be given to you.

