46:1: Mighty in battle was Joshua the son of Nun, And successor to Moses in prophecies. He became, in accordance with his name, A great savior of God’s chosen ones, To punish the enemies who rose up against them, That he might give Israel its inheritance. 
46:2: How glorious he was when he lifted up his hands, And stretched out his sword against the cities. 
46:3: Who stood so firm before him? For he led the wars for the Lord. 
46:4: Was not the sun held back by his hand, And one day become as two? 
46:5: He called upon the Most High, the Lord, When enemies oppressed him from all sides. Then the great Lord answered him, With hailstones of mighty power. 
46:6: He shattered that nation with war, And at the descent of Beth Horon, He destroyed his opponents, So the nations might know his full armor, That he fought his battle in the sight of the Lord. 
46:7: For indeed he followed behind the Lord. Even in the days of Moses he showed mercy, He and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh: They withstood the assembly, To prevent the people from sinning, And to stop their evil murmuring. 
46:8: Indeed, these two alone were preserved From the six hundred thousand on foot, To lead them into an inheritance, Into a land flowing with milk and honey. 
46:9: The Lord gave Caleb strength, And remained with him until old age; For he went up to the hill country, And his seed took it as an inheritance; 
46:10: So all the children of Israel Might know that it is good to follow the Lord. 
46:11: The judges also, each by his name, Those whose heart did not fall into idolatry, And whoever did not turn away from the Lord— May their memory be blessed! 
46:12: May their bones revive from their place, And may the name of those honored, live again in their sons! 
46:13: The prophet of the Lord, Samuel, beloved by his Lord, Established a kingdom, and anointed rulers for his people. 
46:14: He judged the assembly by the law of the Lord, And the Lord watched over Jacob. 
46:15: By his faithfulness he proved to be a true prophet, And by his words he was known to be faithful in vision. 
46:16: Thus he called upon the Lord, the Mighty One, When enemies troubled him on every side, And when he offered a young lamb. 
46:17: Then the Lord thundered from heaven, And with a great sound made His voice heard. 
46:18: He destroyed the leaders of the Tyrians And all the rulers of the Philistines. 
46:19: And before the time of his sleep in perpetuity, Samuel called men to witness Before the Lord and His anointed: “I have not taken any man’s possessions, Even to my sandals.” Indeed, no man brought any charges against him. 
46:20: Even after he fell asleep, he prophesied, And showed the king his end, And raised up his voice out of the earth With a prophecy to wipe away the lawlessness of the people.

