44:1: Let us now praise honored men and our fathers. 
44:2: The Lord established His great glory And majesty from the beginning through them. 
44:3: There were those who ruled in their kingdoms, And were men renowned for their power, Giving counsel through their understanding, And proclaiming prophecies. 
44:4: There were leaders of the people by their counsels, And understanding of learning for the people, Wise in their words of instruction. 
44:5: There were composers of music, And they set forth verse in writing, 
44:6: Wealthy men with great resources, Living in peace in their dwelling-places. 
44:7: All these were honored in their generations, And in their days were a source of boasting. 
44:8: There were those who left behind a name, That men might declare their praises. 
44:9: There were also those whom no one remembers, Who perished as if they never existed; And they died as if they had not been born, And so have their children after them. 
44:10: Nevertheless, these were men of mercy, Whose righteousness lives with God. 
44:11: The good they did remains with their seed, And their inheritance with their children’s children. 
44:12: Their seed stands with the covenants, And their children as well for their sake. 
44:13: Their seed shall remain forever, And their glory will not be blotted out. 
44:14: Their bodies were buried in peace, And their name lives to all generations. 
44:15: Peoples will tell of their wisdom, And the assembly will proclaim their praise. 
44:16: Enoch pleased the Lord and was translated, As an example of repentance for all generations. 
44:17: Noah was found perfect, And was righteous in the time of wrath, In which he was rescued in exchange. Therefore a remnant was left on the earth, When the flood came. 
44:18: Everlasting covenants were made with him, That all flesh would not be wiped away again by a flood. 
44:19: Abraham was a great father of many nations, And no one is found like him in glory. 
44:20: He kept the law of the Most High, Who made a covenant with him. He established a covenant in his flesh, And he was found faithful in testing. 
44:21: Therefore He affirmed by an oath, That nations would be blessed in his seed; And He would multiply him like the dust of the earth, And exalt his seed like the stars in number, And cause them to inherit from sea unto sea, And from the River to the ends of the earth. 
44:22: And with Isaac He established the same assurance, For the sake of Abraham his father. 
44:23: A blessing for all men and the covenant He made Rest upon the head of Jacob. He acknowledged him with His blessings, And gave him an inheritance. Then he divided his portions among twelve tribes.

