4:1: Behold, you are beautiful, my companion, Behold, you are beautiful. Your eyes are like doves, behind your veil; Your hair is as flocks of goats, Coming down from Gilead. 
4:2: Your teeth are as flocks of shorn sheep, That went up from the washing, All of them bearing twins, And none among them is barren. 
4:3: Your lips are like a thread of scarlet, And your manner of speech is pleasant. As the rind of a pomegranate Are your cheeks behind your veil. 
4:4: Your neck is like the tower of David, The one built on courses of stone. A thousand shields hang upon it, All the arrows of the mighty men. 
4:5: Your two breasts are like two fawns, Twins of a gazelle, that feed among the lilies. 
4:6: Until the day dawns, and the shadows depart, I will go my way to the mountain of myrrh And to the hill of frankincense. 
4:7: You are altogether beautiful, And there is no blemish in you. 
4:8: Come from Lebanon, my bride, come from Lebanon. Beginning with faithfulness, you shall come and pass through From the top of Senir and Hermon, From the dens of lions, And the mountains of leopards. 
4:9: My sister, my bride, you ravished my heart; You have ravished my heart with one look from your eyes, With one jewel of your necklace. 
4:10: My sister, my bride, How beautiful are your breasts. How beautiful are your breasts compared to wine, And the fragrance of your garments than all the spices. 
4:11: Your lips, my bride, drip as the honeycomb; Honey and milk are under your tongue; And the fragrance of your garments Is as the scent of Lebanon. 
4:12: My sister, my bride, is an enclosed garden; An enclosed garden, a sealed fountain. 
4:13: Your plants are a garden of pomegranates, With the fragrance of a fruit harvest And aromatic plants: 
4:14: Spikenard and saffron, Calamus and cinnamon; With every tree of Lebanon, Myrrh, aloes, with all the finest spices; 
4:15: A fountain of gardens, A well of living and rushing water from Lebanon. 
4:16: Awake, O north wind, And come, O south wind; Blow through my garden, And let my spices flow out. Let my beloved come to his garden, And eat of its fruits.

