7:1: Now I also am a mortal, the same as all men And earthborn, a descendant of the first-formed man; For in the womb of a mother I was engraved as flesh. 
7:2: In a period of ten months, I was constructed with blood, From the seed of a man and the pleasure of marriage. 
7:3: When I was born, I breathed the common air, Then fell upon the earth the same as all; And as my first sound, I cried like everyone else. 
7:4: I was nursed with care in swaddling-clothes. 
7:5: Thus no king had a different beginning of existence, 
7:6: For there is one entrance into life for all, and a common departure. 
7:7: Therefore I prayed and discernment was given to me; I appealed to God, and the spirit of wisdom came to me. 
7:8: I preferred her to scepter and thrones, And regarded wealth as nothing in comparison to her. 
7:9: Nor did I liken her to any priceless stone, Because all gold is only a little sand in her sight; And silver will be counted as clay before her. 
7:10: I loved her more than health and beauty, And I chose her instead of light, Because her light is sleepless. 
7:11: All good things came to me together with her, And in her hands countless wealth. 
7:12: I was gladdened by all of them, Because wisdom rules them; But I did not know she was their mother. 
7:13: So I learned both honestly and ungrudgingly, And I do not hide her wealth, 
7:14: For it is an unfailing treasure for men Who, when they get it, obtain friendship with God, For they demonstrate her gifts that come from instruction. 
7:15: May God grant me to speak according to His purpose, And to think worthily of what I was given, For He is also the guide of wisdom and the corrector of the wise. 
7:16: For both we and our words are in His hand, And so are all insights and knowledge of handicrafts. 
7:17: For He gives me knowledge of the things that exist: To know the truthful structure of the world, The operative power of its elementary principles, 
7:18: The beginning, end and middle of the times, The changes of the solstices and the transitions of the seasons, 
7:19: The cycles of the year and the arranging of the stars, 
7:20: The natures of animals and the tempers of beasts, The force of winds and the reasoning of mankind, The distinction of plants and the strength of roots, 
7:21: And to know whatever is hidden and whatever is visible. For wisdom, the artisan of all things, taught me. 
7:22: So in herself, wisdom is a spirit that is rational, Holy, only-begotten, manifold, subtle, easily moved, clear, undefiled, manifest, invulnerable, loving what is good, keen, 
7:23: unhindered, beneficent, man-loving, steadfast, unfailing, Free from worry, all-powerful, all-surveying, And penetrating all spirits that are rational, pure and most subtle. 
7:24: For wisdom moves from one place to another More easily than motion itself, And because of her purity, she penetrates all things. 
7:25: So she is the exhalation of the power of God, And the emanation of the pure glory of the Almighty; Therefore nothing defiled enters her. 
7:26: For she is the radiance of eternal light, A spotless mirror of the operative power of God, And the image of His goodness. 
7:27: Though she is one, she can do all things, So while remaining in herself, she renews all things; And in every generation, she passes into holy souls, And makes them friends of God and prophets. 
7:28: Thus God loves nothing as much As the one who lives with wisdom. 
7:29: For wisdom is more beautiful than the sun, And more than every constellation of stars. Compared with light she is found to be superior, 
7:30: For night succeeds the light, But evil cannot overcome wisdom.

