6:1: Listen therefore, O kings, and understand; Learn, O judges of the ends of the earth. 
6:2: Give ear, you that rule over multitudes, And take pride in yourself over a multitude of nations. 
6:3: For power was given to you from the Lord, And your lordship from the Most High, Who will make a careful search of your works, And examine closely your plans. 
6:4: Because as servants of His kingdom, you did not judge rightly; Neither did you keep His law, Nor did you walk according to the plan of God; 
6:5: He shall come upon you terribly and quickly, Because severe judgment falls on those who govern. 
6:6: For the least is pardoned in mercy, But the powerful shall be strongly examined. 
6:7: For the Master of all will not shrink back From anyone’s presence, Nor respect greatness; Because He Himself made both small and great, And cares for all alike. 
6:8: But a strict inquiry is imminent for the mighty. 
6:9: Therefore to you, O tyrants, my words are directed, That you may learn wisdom and not fall away. 
6:10: For they will be made holy who keep holy things piously, And those who are taught holy things will find a defense. 
6:11: Therefore long for my words; Yearn for them, and you will be instructed. 
6:12: Wisdom is radiant and unfading, And is easily perceived by those who love her; For she is found by those who seek her. 
6:13: She comes upon those who long to know her beforehand. 
6:14: He who rises early in the morning to seek her Will not grow weary, For he will find her sitting at his gates. 
6:15: For to think deeply about her Is the perfection of discernment, And he who keeps watch for her Will soon be free from worry; 
6:16: Because she goes about seeking those worthy of her, And she appears to them favorably in their paths, And meets them in every thought. 
6:17: For the beginning of wisdom Is a very genuine desire for instruction, And careful attention to instruction is the love of her. 
6:18: Now this love is the keeping of her laws, And giving heed to her laws is the assurance of incorruption; 
6:19: And incorruption brings one near to God. 
6:20: So desire for wisdom leads toa kingdom. 
6:21: Therefore if you take pleasure in thrones and scepters, O tyrants, Honor wisdom, that you may reign forever. 
6:22: I will tell you what wisdom is and how she came to be, And I will hide no mysteries from you; But I will search her out from the beginning of creation, And make her knowledge clear. I will not pass by the truth, 
6:23: Nor indeed travel with envy which causes one to waste away, Because envy will have no share in wisdom. 
6:24: But a multitude of wise men is the salvation of the world, And a prudent king is the stability of his people. 
6:25: Therefore be instructed by my words, and you will profit.

