8:1: Wisdom stretches out from one end of the earth to the other, And she governs all things well. 
8:2: I loved her and sought her from my youth, And desired to take her as a bride for myself; And I became a lover of her beauty. 
8:3: She glorifies her noble birth by living with God, And the Master of all loves her. 
8:4: For she is the initiate of the knowledge of God, And one who chooses His works. 
8:5: Now if riches are a possession to be desired in life, What is richer than wisdom, who works all things? 
8:6: And if discernment shows itself inaction, Who more than wisdom is its craftsman? 
8:7: If anyone loves righteousness, The products of righteousness are the virtues. For wisdom teaches self-control, discernment, righteousness and courage, Concerning which things there is nothing more valuable in the life of man. 
8:8: But also, if anyone longs for great experience, She knows the things of old, and portrays the things to come; She understands subtlety of words, and the solution of riddles; She has foreknowledge of signs and wonders, And the outcomes of times and seasons. 
8:9: Therefore I decided to take her to live with me, Knowing she would give me good counsel, And encouragement in cares and sorrows. 
8:10: Because of her I will have glory among the multitudes, And honor in the presence of the elders, though I am young. 
8:11: I will be found keen in judgment, And admired in the sight of rulers. 
8:12: When I am silent, they will wait for me, And when I speak, they will give heed to me; And when I speak longer, They will put their hand over their mouth. 
8:13: I will have immortality because of her, And will leave an eternal remembrance for those who exist after me. 
8:14: I shall govern peoples, And nations will be subject to me. 
8:15: Dread tyrants shall be afraid of me when they hear of me; Among the people I will show myself to be good and courageous in war. 
8:16: When I enter my house, I shall find rest with her, For association with her has no bitterness, Neither does living with her have any sorrow, But only gladness and joy. 
8:17: When I considered these things within myself, And thought about them in my heart, That in kinship with wisdom there is immortality, 
8:18: And in friendship with her, there is good pleasure, And in the labors of her hands, there is unfailing wealth, And in the shared training of her company, there is discernment, And in the fellowship of her words, there is good repute— Thus I searched about that I might take her for myself. 
8:19: As a child I was good by nature, and received a good soul; 
8:20: And much more, since I was good, I entered an undefiled body. 
8:21: Yet I knew otherwise that I would not be self-controlled Unless God gave me wisdom, And that it was a mark of discernment to know whose gift she was— So I entreated the Lord and besought Him, And with all my heart, I said:

