3:1: But the souls of the righteous are in the hand of God, And no torture will ever touch them. 
3:2: In the eyes of the undiscerning they seemed to have died, And their departure was considered to be misfortune; 
3:3: And their passage from us to be their destruction, But they are at peace. 
3:4: For though in man’s view they were punished, Their hope is full of immortality. 
3:5: Though chastened in a few things, Great kindness will be shown them, For God tested them and found them worthy of Himself. 
3:6: He tested them like gold in a furnace, And accepted them like a whole burnt offering. 
3:7: In the time of their visitation they will shine forth, And they will run about like sparks through straw. 
3:8: They will judge nations and rule over peoples, And the Lord shall reign over them unto the ages. 
3:9: Those who trust in Him will understand truth, And the faithful shall continue with Him in love, Because grace and mercy are upon His elect. 
3:10: But the ungodly shall experience The punishment they themselves plotted, They who rejected the righteous man And rebelled against the Lord. 
3:11: For whoever despises wisdom and instruction is miserable, And their hope is vain, their labors are useless, And their works are worthless. 
3:12: Their wives are foolish, And their children are evil, their existence accursed. 
3:13: Blessed is the undefiled barren woman Who has not known sexual promiscuity; She shall have fruit in the visitation of souls. 
3:14: Blessed also is the eunuch who has done no lawless deed, Nor thought evil things against the Lord; For a chosen grace of faith will be given to him, And a delightful portion in the temple of the Lord. 
3:15: For the fruit of good labors is of good report, And the root of discernment is infallible. 
3:16: But the children of adulterers shall not reach maturity, And the seed of a lawless bed shall perish. 
3:17: For even if they live a long time They shall be considered as nothing, And in the end their old age will be accounted a dishonor. 
3:18: But if they should die young, they would have no hope, Nor consolation in the day of decision. 
3:19: For the end of an unrighteous generation is grievous.

