14:1: Again, someone getting ready for a voyage, And about to sail through wild waves cries out loud to a piece of wood More fragile than the ship that carries him. 
14:2: For it was desire for gain that contrived that boat, And wisdom was the craftsman who built it; 
14:3: But Your providence, O Father, governs its course, Because You have given it a path in the sea, And a safe track in the waves, 
14:4: Showing that You can save from every danger, And that even without skill one may embark upon the sea. 
14:5: For You do not will that the works of Your wisdom be useless; Therefore, men trust their lives even to the smallest piece of wood, And passing through the waves on a ship They are brought safely through. 
14:6: For even in the beginning, when arrogant giants perished, The hope of the world took refuge in a boat, And piloted by Your hand it left to the world the seed of a family. 
14:7: For the wood was blessed through which righteousness comes. 
14:8: But what was made by human hands itself is accursed, And so is he who made it— He because he made it, And the perishable thing because it was called a god. 
14:9: For equally hateful to God are the ungodly man and his ungodliness. 
14:10: For what was done will be punished along with him who did it. 
14:11: Therefore there shall also be a visitation upon the idols of the nations, Because, though the wood was part of God’s creation, It was made into an abomination, And became a stumbling-block for the souls of men And a trap for the feet of fools. 
14:12: For the invention of idols was the beginning of fornication, And the conception of them the corruption of life, 
14:13: For neither were they from the beginning Nor shall they be forever. 
14:14: For by the vainglory of mankind they entered the world, And therefore their speedy end has been planned. 
14:15: For a father consumed with untimely grief When his child was soon taken from him, Made an image of the once dead human being, And honored him now as a god, And handed down to those under him secret mysteries and initiations. 
14:16: Then the ungodly custom, strengthened by time, was kept as a law, And at the command of tyrants carved images were worshiped. 
14:17: When men could not honor a tyrant before his face Because he lived far away, They imagined his face from a distance, And made a visible image of the honored king, That by their zeal they might flatter the one absent as though present. 
14:18: Then the ambition of the craftsman encouraged Even those who did not know the king to increase their worship. 
14:19: For wishing perhaps to please the one who ruled over him, He skillfully forced the likeness into a more beautiful form, 
14:20: And the multitude, attracted by the popularity of his work, Now considered him as an object of worship Whom a short time before they honored as a man. 
14:21: But this became a trap for their life, Because men, either in bondage to calamity or to kingly power, Conferred on stones and wood a name not shared with another. 
14:22: Furthermore it was not enough for them To be deceived about the knowledge of God, But they live in a great conflict of ignorance, And they call such evils peace. 
14:23: For they either hold child-murdering rites of initiation, or celebrate secret mysteries, Or engage in the frantic revelry of special customs. 
14:24: Moreover they keep neither life nor marriages pure, But one either kills another in ambush, Or one causes another grief when he corrupts his marriage. 
14:25: Everything is mixed together: Blood and murder, theft and treachery, Depravity, unfaithfulness, tumult, perjury, 
14:26: Confusion over what is good, ingratitude, corruption of family, Breakup of marriages, disorder, adultery, and debauchery. 
14:27: For the worship of idols not to be named Is the beginning, cause and end of every evil. 
14:28: For either they are driven to a frenzy in their celebrations, Or prophesy lies, Or live unrighteously, or readily swear falsely; 
14:29: For since they trust in lifeless idols, They swear with wrong motives and expect to suffer no harm. 
14:30: But justice will catch up with them on two counts: Because they thought wrongly about God in their devotion to idols, And by treating holiness with contempt, they swore unjustly in deceit. 
14:31: For it is not the power of making oaths, but the punishment of those who sin, That always prosecutes the transgression of the unrighteous.

