9:1: “O God of our fathers and the Lord of mercy, Who made all things by Your word, 
9:2: And in Your wisdom built a man, That by You He might be the master of what is created, 
9:3: And manage the world in holiness and righteousness, And pass judgment with uprightness of soul: 
9:4: Give me the wisdom that sits by Your throne, And do not reject me from among Your servants; 
9:5: Because I am Your servant and the son of Your maidservant, A weak man and lasting but a short time, And inferior in the understanding of judgment and laws. 
9:6: For though one is perfect among the sons of men, Yet if Your wisdom is absent from him, He will be regarded as nothing. 
9:7: You chose me to be the king of Your people, And to be the judge over Your sons and daughters. 
9:8: You gave command to build a temple on Your holy mountain, And an altar in the city of Your habitation, A copy of Your holy tabernacle Which You prepared from the beginning. 
9:9: With You is wisdom, who knows Your works, And was present when You made the world, And who understands what is pleasing in Your sight, And what is upright within Your commandments. 
9:10: Send her forth from Your holy heavens, And send her from Your glorious throne, That she might be present with me and labor, And that I might know what is well-pleasing to You. 
9:11: For she knows and understands all things, And she will guide me wisely in my actions, And guard me with her glory. 
9:12: Then my works shall be acceptable, And I will judge Your people righteously, And shall be worthy of my father’s throne. 
9:13: For what man will know the counsel of God? Or who will think about what the Lord wills? 
9:14: For the reasoning of mortals is cowardly, And our intents are unsafe; 
9:15: For a corruptible body weighs down the soul, And this earthy tent burdens a heart full of thoughts. 
9:16: We can barely form a conjecture of the things upon the earth, And the things at hand we find with toil; But who has searched out the things in the heavens? 
9:17: Who has known Your counsel, unless You have given him wisdom, And sent him Your Holy Spirit from on high? 
9:18: And thus the paths of those on earth were made straight, And mankind was taught what pleases You; So they were saved by wisdom.”

