11:1: Wisdom prospered their works by the hand of a holy prophet. 
11:2: They traveled through an uninhabited desert, And pitched their tents in impassable places. 
11:3: They held their ground in wars, And defended themselves against their enemies. 
11:4: They thirsted and called upon You, And water was given them from a flinty rock, And a quenching of thirst from a hard stone; 
11:5: For through the things by which their enemies were punished, They themselves when in need Had kindness shown to them. 
11:6: In place of a spring of an ever-flowing river, Troubled and defiled with blood, 
11:7: In rebuke to the decree to slay the infants— You gave them abundant water unexpectedly, 
11:8: Showing through their thirst at that time, How You punished their enemies. 
11:9: For when they were tested, Though they were disciplined in mercy, They learned how the ungodly were tormented When judged in wrath. 
11:10: For You tested them, admonishing them like a father, But You examined the ungodly, Like a severe king passing sentence. 
11:11: Whether present or absent, They were likewise consumed, 
11:12: For twofold grief possessed them, And a groaning over the memory of all that happened. 
11:13: For when they heard that through their own punishments, The holy people had kindness shown to them, They understood it was the Lord’s doing. 
11:14: For they marveled at the outcome of the man They hadcast out mockingly and exposed long before, For they did not thirst for godliness as do the righteous. 
11:15: In return for the wrongdoing of their senseless reasoning, In which they were led astray and worshiped irrational serpents and worthless animals, You sent upon them a multitude of animals in vengeance, 
11:16: So they might learn that one is punished by the things by which he sins. 
11:17: For Your all-powerful hand, which created the world out of unformed matter, Did not lack the resource to send upon them A multitude of bears or bold lions, 
11:18: Or newly created unknown beasts full of anger, Either snorting a fire-breathing breath, Or scattering like chaff a thick cloud of smoke, Or flashing terrible sparks from their eyes. 
11:19: Not only could their damage utterly destroy men, But their mere outward appearance could terrify and kill them. 
11:20: Even without these, men could fall in a single breath When they are pursued by justice, And scattered like chaff by the breath of Your power; But You have ordered all things by measure, number and weight. 
11:21: For great power is always present with You, And who can oppose the might of Your arm? 
11:22: Because the entire world before You is like a small additional weight on scales, And like a drop of dew early in the morning that falls on the ground. 
11:23: But You are merciful to all, for You can do all things; And You overlook the sins of men to bring them to repentance. 
11:24: For You love all the things that exist, And You detest nothing of the things You made; For You would not even make anything You hated. 
11:25: How could anything continue to exist unless You willed it? Or how could anything be preserved Unless it was called into existence by You? 
11:26: You spare all things, because they are Yours, O Master, who loves human beings.

