4:1: Childlessness with virtue is better than this, For immortality is in its memory; Because it is known both by God and by man. 
4:2: When virtue is present, people imitate it, And when it goes away, they long for it. Throughout one’s lifetime, Virtue leads the struggle for undefiled prizes, Wearing a crown and conquering. 
4:3: But the prolific multitude of the ungodly are useful to no one, And none of their illegitimate seedlings will grow a deep root, Or establish a sure footing. 
4:4: For although they may flourish in their branches for a time, Yet without a sure footing they will be shaken by the wind, And uprooted by the force of the winds. 
4:5: Their twigs shall be broken off before they reach maturity, And their fruit will be useless, Not ripe for eating or good for anything. 
4:6: For children born from lawless unions, Are witnesses of evil against their parents In their close examination. 
4:7: But though a righteous man may die before his time, He shall be at rest. 
4:8: For old age is not honored for its length of existence, Nor measured by its number of years; 
4:9: But discernment is gray hair for mankind, And a spotless life is the maturity of old age. 
4:10: There was once a man pleasing to God and loved by Him, And while living among sinners he was taken up. 
4:11: He was caught up lest evil change his understanding, Or deceit deceive his soul. 
4:12: For envy arising from lack of judgment obscures what is good, And a whirling of desire undermines an innocent heart. 
4:13: He was made perfect, For in a short time he fulfilled long years, 
4:14: For his soul was pleasing to the Lord; Therefore, He took him early from the midst of evil. Yet peoples saw this but did not understand, Nor take such a thing to heart, 
4:15: That the Lord’s grace and mercy are with His elect, And that He watches over His holy ones. 
4:16: But a righteous man who is dead Shall condemn the ungodly who are living, And a youth who is quickly perfected Shall condemn the ripe old age of a wrongdoer. 
4:17: For they will see the end of the wiseman, But will not understand what the Lord purposed for him, Or why He kept him safe. 
4:18: They will see and despise him, But the Lord will laugh them to scorn. 
4:19: After this they shall be dead without honor, And an insult among the dead continually; Because He will dash them headlong and speechless to the ground, And shake them from the foundations. They shall be left dry and barren to the very end; They shall be in pain, And their memory shall perish. 
4:20: They will come with dread In the day of reckoning for their sins, And their lawless deeds will convict them to their face.

