2:1: For they said among themselves, as they reasoned incorrectly: “Our life is short and painful, And there is no cure for the death of a man; For no one has been known to return from Hades; 
2:2: Because we were born by chance, And after this we shall be as though we never existed; For the breath in our nostrils is smoke, And our speech is the spark, kindled by the beating of our heart. 
2:3: When the spark is extinguished, our body will turn to ashes, And our breath will disperse like empty air. 
2:4: Then our name will be forgotten in due time, And no one will remember our works; So our life will pass away like the trace of a cloud, And be scattered like fog, Driven away by the rays of the sun, And oppressed by its heat. 
2:5: For our appointed time is the passing of a shadow, And there is no return from our death; Because it is sealed up, no one can turn back. 
2:6: “Come, therefore, and let us enjoy the good things that exist, And make the most of creation as quickly as possible, As we did in our youth. 
2:7: Let us be filled with expensive wine and perfumes, And let no flower of springtime pass us by. 
2:8: Let us crown ourselves with rosebuds Before they wither away. 
2:9: Let none of us fail to share in our arrogance. Let us leave signs of our gladness everywhere, Because this is our portion, and this is our lot. 
2:10: Let us oppress the righteous poor man; Let us not spare a widow, Nor respect the aged gray hair of an old man. 
2:11: Let our might be our law of righteousness, For what is weak is shown to be useless. 
2:12: “Let us lie in ambush for the righteous man, Because he is useless to us, and opposes our deeds; He denounces us for our sins against the law, And accuses us of sins against our upbringing. 
2:13: He claims to have knowledge of God, And he calls himself a child of the Lord. 
2:14: He has become for us as a refutation of our purposes; Even seeing him is a burden to us, 
2:15: Because his life is unlike that of others; For his paths go in a different direction. 
2:16: We are considered by him as a hybrid, And he avoids our ways as something immoral. He considers the last things of the righteous as blessed, And pretends that God is his Father. 
2:17: Let us see if his words are true, And let us put these last things to the test at the end of his life. 
2:18: For if the righteous man is a son of God, He will help him, And deliver him from the hand of those who oppose him. 
2:19: Let us test him with insult and torture, That we may know his gentleness, And test his patient endurance. 
2:20: Let us condemn him to a shameful death, For there shall be a visitation because of his words.” 
2:21: So they reasoned these things, And were led astray, For their malice blinded them. 
2:22: But they did not know the mysteries of God, Nor hope for the wages of holiness, Nor judge the reward of blameless souls. 
2:23: For God created man for immortality, And made him an image of His own eternity. 
2:24: But death entered the world by the envy of the devil, And those of his portion tempt it.

