6:1: I turned and looked up; I looked and beheld four chariots coming from between two mountains, and the mountains were mountains of bronze. 
6:2: With the first chariot were red horses, with the second chariot black horses, 
6:3: with the third chariot white horses, and with the fourth chariot, piebald horses. 
6:4: And I replied to the angel speaking to me, “What are these, my lord?” 
6:5: And the angel who spoke with me answered and said, “These are the four winds of heaven, and they are going forth to stand before the Lord of all the earth. 
6:6: The black ones went out to the land of the north, and the white horses went out after them, and the piebald horses went to the land of the south. 
6:7: The dapple-gray horses went out, and looked to go around over all the earth.” And He said, “Go and travel over all the earth.” And they traveled over all the earth. 
6:8: And He called out and spoke to me, saying, “Behold, the ones going out to the land of the north have given rest to My anger in the land of the north.” 
6:9: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
6:10: “Take the things of the captivity from the rulers, from its useful men and from those having come to understand it, and on that day you shall enter into the house of Josiah, son of Zephaniah, who has come out of Babylon; 
6:11: take silver and gold and make crowns, and set them on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest. 
6:12: And you will say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord Almighty: “Behold the man, Orient is His name, and He shall rise up from below the horizon, and He shall build the house of the Lord. 
6:13: And He shall receive power and shall sit and rule upon His throne, and a priest shall be by His right hand, and there will be peaceful counsel between both of them.” ’
6:14: “And the crown shall be to those who endure patiently, to His useful men, and to those coming to understand it, and for the favor of the son of Zephaniah, and for a psalm in the house of the Lord. 
6:15: And those far away from them will come and will build in the house of the Lord. You shall know the Lord Almighty sent Me to you, and this will come to pass if you will listen diligently to the voice of the Lord your God.”

