10:1: Ask for yourself rain from the Lord during the time of the early rain and the late rain. The Lord made a great display and will give winter rain to each crop in the field. 
10:2: Therefore the ones speaking proclaimed troublesome things, and the seers false visions, and they told false dreams; they spoke vain words of comfort. They have been driven away like sheep, and they have lost heart because there was no healing. 
10:3: “My anger was kindled against the shepherds, and I will care for the lambs. The Lord God Almighty, shall visit His flock, the house of Judah, and shall appoint them as His stately warhorse. 
10:4: For from Himself He observed attentively, and from Himself He ordered—even from Himself a bow in anger; from Him shall go forth every oppressor. 
10:5: And as warriors, they will be trampling as grapes the clay on the roads. They shall array themselves in battle array, for the Lord is with them, and the horsemen will be put to shame. 
10:6: “And I will strengthen the house of Judah and save the house of Joseph, and I will settle them, for I have loved them, and they shall be as though I had not turned away from them, because I am the Lord their God, and I will hear them. 
10:7: And they shall be like the warriors of Ephraim, and their heart shall rejoice as with wine; and their children shall see it and be glad, and their heart shall rejoice in the Lord. 
10:8: I will make a sign for them and gather them in, for I will redeem them, and they shall be multiplied according to their previous number. 
10:9: “And I will sow them among the peoples, and those far off will remember Me. They will rear their children, and they will return. 
10:10: And I shall bring them back from the land of Egypt and gather them in from the Assyrians. I shall bring them into the land of Gilead and into Lebanon; not even one of them will be left behind. 
10:11: They will pass through the narrow sea, and will strike the waves of the sea, and all the full depths of the rivers shall be dried up. All the arrogance of the Assyrians shall be taken away, and the scepter of Egypt shall be stripped away. 
10:12: And I will strengthen them in the Lord their God, and they shall boast in His name,” says the Lord.

