14:1: Behold, the days of the Lord come, and your plunder will be divided among you. 
14:2: And I shall gather together all the nations to war against Jerusalem. The city shall be taken, the houses plundered, the women defiled, and half of the city will go forth into exile, but the rest of My people shall not be utterly cut off from the city. 
14:3: And the Lord will go forth and prepare for battle against those nations, as in the day of His battle array in the day of war. 
14:4: And on that day His feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east. And the Mount of Olives shall be split in two, half towards the east and half towards the sea, a very great divide; and half the mountain shall lean toward the north, and half of it toward the south. 
14:5: And the valley of my mountains will be blocked up, and the ravine of the mountains will be joined as far as Azal. And it will be blocked up as he had blocked it up in the days of the earthquake, in the days of Uzziah the king of Judah, and the Lord my God shall come and all the saints with Him. 
14:6: And in that day, it shall be that there will not be any light, but there shall be cold and frost 
14:7: for one day, and that day shall be known to the Lord. It will be neither a day nor a night, but towards evening there will be light. 
14:8: And in that day living water shall come forth out of Jerusalem, half of it toward the eastern sea and half toward the western sea. So it will be in both summer and spring. 
14:9: And the Lord shall be King of all the earth and in that day, the Lord shall be one Lord, and His name one name, 
14:10: encircling all the land, even the wilderness from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. But Ramá shall remain in her place; from Benjamin’s Gate to the place of the First Gate; to the Gate of the Corners; and to the Tower of Hananeel, as far as the king’s winepresses, 
14:11: They will dwell in her, and it will no longer be a curse. Jerusalem shall dwell securely. 
14:12: And this will be the downfall with which the Lord will strike all the nations, as many as made war against Jerusalem. Their flesh will be eaten away as they stand upon their feet, and their eyes shall pour out of their sockets, and their tongue shall melt away in their mouth. 
14:13: In that day there shall be a state of great bewilderment upon them from the Lord. Each of them will seize the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will become locked with the person near to him. 
14:14: And Judah shall draw up for battle in Jerusalem, and He will gather together the strength of all the surrounding peoples: the gold, the silver and the apparel in great abundance. 
14:15: And this will be the overthrow of the horses and the mules, the camels and the donkeys, and all the cattle that are in those camps throughout this downfall. 
14:16: And it shall come to pass that whoever may be left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem, they too will go up every year to worship the King, the Lord Almighty, and celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles. 
14:17: And it shall be that whoever from all the tribes of the land will not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord Almighty, even these will be added to the others. 
14:18: And if the nation of Egypt shall not go up, nor attend, upon these will come the downfall which the Lord will strike on all the nations, as many as do not come up to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles. 
14:19: This will be the sin of Egypt, and the sin of all the nations, as many as do not come up to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles. 
14:20: In that day, there will be engraved in the bridle of every horse: “Holy to the Lord Almighty,” and the kettles in the house of the Lord will be like bowls before the altar. 
14:21: And every kind of kettle in Jerusalem and Judah will be holy to the Lord Almighty; and all who sacrifice will come and take from them and shall cook in them. And in that day the Canaanite shall no longer be in the house of the Lord Almighty.

