8:1: And the word of the Lord Almighty came, saying, 
8:2: “Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘I have been zealous for Jerusalem and for Zion, zealous for her with great zeal and fervor.’ ”
8:3: Thus says the Lord: ‘I will return to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem shall be called a true City, and the Mountain of the Lord Almighty the Holy Mountain.’ 
8:4: “Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘Elderly men and elderly women shall yet sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each one holding his cane in his hand for the multitude of their days 
8:5: And the streets will be filled with boys and girls dancing in her streets.’ 
8:6: Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘If it is impossible in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, will it also be impossible in My sight?’ says the Lord Almighty. 
8:7: Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘Behold, I shall deliver My people from the land of the east and from the land of the west. 
8:8: I shall bring them in and settle them in the midst of Jerusalem. They shall be to Me a people and I will be to them a God in truth and in righteousness.’ 
8:9: “Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘Let your hands be strong, you who hear in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets, from the day that the house of the Lord Almighty was founded, and from the time the temple was built. 
8:10: For before those days men’s wages will not be profitable and a price for livestock will not even exist, and because of affliction there will be no peace for those going out and those coming in, and I will send forth all men, each against his neighbor. 
8:11: But now I do not do to the remnant of this people as in the former days,’ says the Lord Almighty, 
8:12: Rather I will show forth peace, for the vine shall give its fruit, the earth her produce, the heaven its dew, and I will give all these things as an inheritance to the remnant of this people. 
8:13: And it shall come to pass that as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you, and you will be for a blessing; be of good courage and strengthen your hands.’ 
8:14: “For thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘As I purposed to afflict you when your fathers provoked Me to anger,’ says the Lord Almighty, ‘and I did not relent, 
8:15: so now in these days I have prepared and purposed to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; be of good courage. 
8:16: These are the things you shall do: speak the truth, each man to his neighbor, and judge with peaceful judgment in your gates, 
8:17: and let none of you plan evil in his heart against his neighbor, and do not love a false oath, for all these things I hate,’ says the Lord Almighty.” 
8:18: And the word of the Lord Almighty came to me, saying, 
8:19: “Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘The fourth-month fast, and the fifth month fast, and the seventh month fast, and the tenthmonth fast, shall be for joy and gladness and in good feasts to the house of Judah. And you will rejoice, and you will love truth and peace.’ 
8:20: Thus says the Lord Almighty: ‘Yet many people will have come and those inhabiting many cities; 
8:21: and the inhabitants of five cities will come together to one city, saying, “Let us go to beseech the Lord and to seek out the face of the Lord Almighty; and I will go also.” 
8:22: And many peoples and many nations will come to seek out the presence of the Lord Almighty in Jerusalem and to obtain the favor of the presence of the Lord.’ 
8:23: Thus says the Lord Almighty, ‘In those days, if ten men from all the tongues of the nations stop you, even if they grab hold of the hem of a Jewish man, they will be saying, “We will go with you, for we heard God is with you.’ ”

