2:1: And I looked up, and behold, four horns. 
2:2: And I said to the angel who talked with me, “My lord, what are these?” And he said to me, “These are the horns that have scattered Judah and Israel.” 
2:3: And the Lord showed me four craftsmen. 
2:4: And I said, “What are they coming to do?” And he said, “These are the horns that scattered Judah and broke Israel in pieces, and not one of them looked up, and they come forth to sharpen these with their hands, the four horns—the nations that lifted their horn up against the land of the Lord to scatter it.” 
2:5: And I looked up, and behold, a man, and in his hand was a measuring line. 
2:6: And I said to him, “Where are you going?” And he said to me, “To measure Jerusalem to see its width and its length.” 
2:7: And behold, the angel who was speaking to me stood up, and another angel went to meet him. 
2:8: And he spoke to him saying, “Run and speak to that young man, saying, ‘Jerusalem shall be fruitfully inhabited by reason of the multitude of men and livestock in the midst of her. 
2:9: ‘And I will be for her a wall of fire all around,’ says the Lord, ‘and I will be in glory in the midst of her,’ says the Lord.” 
2:10: “Oh! Oh! flee from the land of the north,” says the Lord, “because I will gather you together from the four winds of heaven,” says the Lord. 
2:11: “Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.” 
2:12: For thus says the Lord Almighty, “He has sent Me out after glory to the nations that plundered you, for the one who assails you is as one who assails the apple of His eye. 
2:13: For behold, I bring My hand against them, and they shall be plunder to those serving them, and you will know the Lord Almighty sent Me.” 
2:14: “Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I am coming to you, and I will dwell in your midst,” says the Lord. 
2:15: “And in that day many nations shall flee to the Lord for refuge, and they will be His people, and they will dwell in your midst, and you shall know the Lord Almighty has sent Me to you. 
2:16: And the Lord will inherit Judah, His portion in the holy land, and He will still choose Jerusalem. 
2:17: Let all flesh fear before the presence of the Lord, for He has roused Himself from His holy clouds.”

