12:1: The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel: Thus says the Lord, who stretches out the heavens, who lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him: 
12:2: “Behold, I make Jerusalem as a gate being shaken to all the peoples surrounding her; for in Judea there shall be a siege against Jerusalem. 
12:3: “And it shall come to pass in that day that I shall make Jerusalem a stone to be walked upon by all the nations. Everyone trampling her underfoot will utterly mock her, and all the nations of the earth shall come together against her. 
12:4: In that day,” says the Lord Almighty, “I shall smite every horse with bewilderment, and I shall bring a state of total confusion against its rider. But I shall open My eyes upon the house of Judah, and I shall smite all the horses of the nations with blindness. 
12:5: And the captains of thousands of Judah shall say in their hearts, ‘We shall find for ourselves those inhabiting Jerusalem with the Lord Almighty, their God.’ 
12:6: In that day I will make the captains of thousands of Judah as a burning torch of fire among the trees, and like a torch in dried straw. They shall consume all nations surrounding her, both on the right and on the left, and Jerusalem will again dwell by herself. 
12:7: And the Lord shall preserve the dwelling places of Judah as at the beginning, that the boast of the house of David and the pride of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not magnify themselves over Judah. 
12:8: “And in that day, it shall come to pass that the Lord shall defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and in that day, the one who is weak among them will be as the house of David; and the house of David as the house of God, as the Angel of the Lord before them. 
12:9: It shall come to pass in that day, that I shall seek to drive away all the nations that come against Jerusalem. 
12:10: And I will pour the spirit of grace and compassion upon the house of David, and those inhabiting Jerusalem, and they shall look upon Me whom they mocked, and they will mourn for Him, as for a beloved one, and they shall grieve profoundly, as for a firstborn son. 
12:11: “In that day, the lamentation in Jerusalem shall be very great, like the mourning for the pomegranate orchard being cut down in the plain. 
12:12: And the land itself shall mourn throughout the tribe, the tribe of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves; the tribe of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves; 
12:13: “the tribe of the house of Levi by itself and their wives by themselves; the tribe of Symeon by itself and their wives by themselves; 
12:14: “and all the remaining tribes, every tribe by itself, and their wives by themselves.

