9:1: The burden of the word of the Lord against the land of Hadrach, and of Damascus his sacrifice, for the Lord looks upon men and on all the tribes of Israel. 
9:2: And on Hamath in her borders, Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise. 
9:3: For Tyre built a fortress for herself and stored up silver like dust and collected gold as if mud in the streets. 
9:4: Therefore, the Lord shall possess her as an inheritance, and shall strike against her power in the sea, and she shall be consumed by fire. 
9:5: Ashkelon shall see it and fear; and Gaza, even she shall suffer greatly, and Ekron will be ashamed because of her transgression. The king will perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall no longer be inhabited. 
9:6: “And foreigners shall settle in Ashdod, and I will bring down the pride of the Philistines. 
9:7: “I will remove their blood from their mouth and their abominations from between their teeth, and this also will be left to our God. And they shall be as a captain of a thousand in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite. 
9:8: “And I will raise up a fortress around my house that none may pass through nor return back, and no longer shall anyone come against them to drive them out, for I have now seen with my own eyes. 
9:9: “Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Proclaim it aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold your King comes to you; He is righteous and saving; He is gentle and mounted upon a donkey, even a young foal. 
9:10: He will utterly destroy the chariots out of Ephraim and the horse out of Jerusalem. The bow of war shall be utterly destroyed, and there shall be abundance and peace among the nations. He shall rule over the waters as far as the sea and over the rivers to the ends of the earth. 
9:11: “And by the blood of your covenant, you freed your prisoners from the pit having no water. 
9:12: You prisoners from the congregation, you shall live in the fortress, and for one day of your exile, I will repay to you double. 
9:13: For I have bent you, O Judah, for Myself as a bow; I have filled Ephraim. And I will arouse your sons, O Zion, against the sons of the Greeks, and I will handle you as the sword of a warrior.” 
9:14: And the Lord will be over them, and He shall go forth like a lightning bolt. The Lord Almighty shall sound with the trumpet and shall go forth with the tumult of His threat. 
9:15: The Lord Almighty will shield them, and they shall devour their enemy and overwhelm them with sling-stones. They will drink them down as wine and they shall fill the bowls as at the altar. 
9:16: And on that day, the Lord their God will deliver them, His people as a flock, for sacred stones will roll across His land. 
9:17: For if anything of His be good, and anything of His be fair, there shall be grain for the young men and the fragrant wine for the virgins.

