2:1: “O untaught nation, be gathered together and united to one another, 
2:2: Before you become like a flower that passes away, before the anger of the Lord comes upon you, before the day of the wrath of the Lord comes upon you! 
2:3: Seek the Lord, all you humble of the earth. Bring about justice, seek righteousness and give answer to these things, so you may be sheltered in the day of the Lord’s wrath. 
2:4: “For Gaza shall be for pillaging, and Ashkelon shall be for extermination. Ashdod shall be driven out at midday and Ekron shall be uprooted. 
2:5: Woe to those dwelling on the seacoast, neighbors of the Cretans; O Canaan, land of the Philistines, the word of the Lord is against you, and, I shall destroy you out of your dwelling place. 
2:6: Crete shall be a pasture for flocks and folds for sheep. 
2:7: The seacoast shall be for the remnant of the house of Judah; upon them they shall pasture their flocks in the houses of Ashkelon; in the evening they will rest because of the presence of the children of Judah, for the Lord their God has cared for them, and has removed their captivity. 
2:8: “I have heard the insults of Moab, and the cruel acts of the people of Ammon, by which they have berated My people, and exalted themselves against My borders. 
2:9: ‘Therefore, as I live’, says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, ‘Moab shall be like Sodom, and the sons of Ammon like Gomorrah, and Damascus is like a heap left on the threshing floor and ruined forever, and the remnant of My people will plunder them, and the remnant of My nation will inherit them.’ 
2:10: This is their punishment because they have reproached and exalted themselves against the Lord Almighty. 
2:11: The Lord shall show Himself to be against them and shall utterly destroy all the gods of the earth, and they will worship Him, each one from his place, even all the islands of the nations”. 
2:12: “O Ethiopians, you are the slain of My sword.” 
2:13: And He shall stretch out His hand to the north and destroy the Assyrian, and make Nineveh a waterless desolation, as a desert. 
2:14: And flocks will graze in the midst of her: even all the wild animals of the land, and the chameleons and hedgehogs will sleep in her coffered ceilings, and wild animals will cry out between her breaches and ravens in her gates, for her loftiness was as a cedar. 
2:15: This is the contemptuous city who dwells in hope, who says in her heart: “I am, and there is none beside me.” How she has even become a desolation, a pasture for wild beasts! Everyone passing through her will hiss and shake his fists.

