5:1: Now Moses called all Israel, and said to them, “Hear, O Israel, the ordinances and the judgments I speak in your hearing on this day, and you shall learn them and be careful to do them.
8:19: Thus it shall be, if you forget the Lord your God, and follow after different gods and serve and worship them, I testify against you today, you shall surely perish. 
8:20: As the remaining nations the Lord destroys before your face, so you shall perish, because you would not be obedient to the voice of the Lord your God.
9:1: “Hear, O Israel, You are to cross over the Jordan today and go in to inherit nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities great and fortified up to heaven, 
9:2: a people, great and large and tall, the sons of Anak, whom you know and of whom you heard it said, ‘Who can stand against the face of the sons of Anak?’ 
9:3: Therefore understand today, the Lord your God is He who goes over before you as a consuming fire. He will destroy them and turn them from your face; and you will destroy them, as the Lord said to you. 
9:4: Do not say in your heart, after the Lord your God consumes these nations before you, saying, ‘Because of my righteousness the Lord brought me in to inherit this good land’; but because of the ungodliness of these nations, the Lord will destroy them before your face. 
9:5: It is not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart that you are going in to inherit their land, but because of the ungodliness of these nations, the Lord will destroy them before your face, that He may establish His covenant He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
9:6: Thus you will know today, the Lord your God is not giving you this good land to inherit because of your righteousness, for you are a stiff-necked people. 
9:7: Remember, do not forget how you provoked the Lord your God to wrath in the desert. From the day you came out of Egypt until you came into this land, you continued being disobedient to the Lord. 
9:8: Also in Horeb you provoked the Lord, and the Lord was angry enough with you to destroy you, 
9:9: when I went up into the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant the Lord established with you; and I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water. 
9:10: Then the Lord delivered two tablets of stone to me, written with the finger of God, and on them were all the words the Lord spoke to you on the mountain, in the day of the assembly. 
9:11: And it came to pass, at the end of forty days and forty nights, the Lord gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant. 
9:12: “Then the Lord said to me, ‘Arise, go down quickly from here, for your people you brought out of Egypt have acted lawlessly; they turned aside quickly from the way I commanded them; they made themselves a molten image.’ 
9:13: Furthermore, the Lord spoke to me, saying, ‘I told you once and twice, I see this people, and indeed they are a stiff-necked people. 
9:14: Let Me destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make of you a nation greater and stronger and larger than they.’ 
9:15: “So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire; and the two tablets were in my two hands. 
9:16: Then I looked, and you had sinned against the Lord your God and made for yourselves a molten image. You turned aside quickly from the way the Lord commanded you. 
9:17: Then I took the two tablets and threw them down with my two hands, and broke them before you. 
9:18: And I prayed before the Lord a second time, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all your sins you committed in doing wickedly in the sight of the Lord your God to provoke Him. 
9:19: For I was afraid because of the anger and the wrath, for the Lord was provoked by you to destroy you. But the Lord listened to me at this time also. 
9:20: The Lord was also very angry with Aaron and would have destroyed him; so I also prayed for Aaron at that time. 
9:21: Then I took the sin you committed, the calf you made, and burned it with fire, and crushed it, and ground it very small until it was as fine as dust; and I threw its dust into the brook that descended from the mountain. 
9:22: “Also at the Burning and the Temptation and the Graves of Lust, you provoked the Lord your God to wrath. 
9:23: Likewise, when the Lord sent you from Kadesh Barnea, saying, ‘Go up and inherit the land I give you,’ then you disobeyed the word of the Lord your God, and you did not believe Him nor listen to His voice. 
9:24: You were disobedient to the Lord from the day He became known to you.

