12:1: Now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, 
12:2: “This month shall be your beginning of months; it shall be the first month of the year to you. 
12:3: Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month every man shall take for himself a lamb, according to the family households, a lamb for each home. 
12:4: If there be too few in a household, let him and his neighbor next to his house take it according to the number of souls; he will make his count in lambs according to the needs of each one. 
12:5: Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year. You shall take it from the sheep or the kids. 
12:6: Then you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at twilight. 
12:7: Then they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and on the lintel of the houses where they eat it. 
12:8: They shall eat the flesh on that night; roasted in fire; with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it. 
12:9: Do not eat it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted in fire its head with its legs and its entrails. 
12:10: You shall let none of it remain until morning, nor shall you break a bone of it; and what remains of it until morning, you shall burn with fire. 
12:11: Thus you shall eat it: with a belt on your waist, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. You shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord’s Pascha. 
12:12: For I will pass through the land of Egypt on that night, and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute vengeance: I am the Lord. 
12:13: Now the blood shall be a sign for you on the houses where you are; and when I see the blood, I will pass over you; and the plague shall not be on you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. 
12:14: So this day shall be to you a memorial; and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations. You shall keep it as a feast by an everlasting ordinance.

