37:1: Again the hand of the Lord came upon me, and brought me by the Spirit of the Lord, and set me in the midst of the plain, which was full of human bones. 
37:2: So He led me round about them, and behold, there was a great multitude of bones on the face of the plain. They were very dry. 
37:3: Then He said to me, “Son of man, can these bones live?” So I answered, “O Lord, You know this.” 
37:4: Then He said to me, “Prophesy to these bones and say to them, ‘O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. 
37:5: Thus says the Lord to these bones: “Behold, I will bring the Spirit of life upon you. 
37:6: I will put muscles on you and bring flesh upon you. I will cover you with skin and put my Spirit into you. Then you shall live and know that I am the Lord.” ’ ” 
37:7: So I prophesied as He commanded me, and it came to pass while I prophesied that, behold, there was a shaking, and the bones came together, each one to its joint. 
37:8: So I looked, and behold, muscle and flesh grew upon them, and skin covered them over; but no breath was in them. 
37:9: Then He said to me, “Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Come from the four winds and breathe upon these dead men; and let them live.” ’ ” 
37:10: So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the Spirit entered into them; and they lived and stood upon their feet, an exceedingly great assembly. 
37:11: Again the Lord spoke to me, saying, “Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. They say, ‘Our bones are dry, our hope has perished, and we are lost.’ 
37:12: Therefore prophesy and say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will open your tombs, bring you up from your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel. 
37:13: Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I open your tombs to lead you, My people, up from their graves. 
37:14: I will put My Spirit in you, and you will live; and I will place you in your own land. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I have spoken, and I will do it,” says the Lord.’ ”

