18:20: But the soul who sins shall die. The son shall not bear the wrongdoing of his father, nor shall the father bear the wrongdoing of his son. The righteousness of a righteous man shall be upon himself, and the lawlessness of a lawless man shall be upon himself. 
18:21: But if a lawless man turns from all the lawless deeds he commits, keeps all My commandments, does righteousness and shows mercy, he will surely live and not die. 
18:22: None of the transgressions he commits will be remembered. In the righteousness he does, he shall live. 
18:23: Do I ever will the death of a lawless man,” says the Lord, “since My will is for him to turn from the evil way and live? 
18:24: But when a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits a wrongdoing, according to all the lawlessness a lawless man commits, then all the righteousness he does shall not be remembered. In the transgression he falls into and in his sins he commits, in these he shall die. 
18:25: “Yet you say, ‘The Lord’s way is not straight.’ Hear now, all the house of Israel, is My way not straight? Is your way straight? 
18:26: When the righteous man turns away from his righteousness, commits a transgression, and dies in the transgression he commits, he should die because of it. 
18:27: Again when a lawless man turns away from the lawlessness he commits and does judgment and righteousness, then he guards his life; 
18:28: for he turned himself away from all the ungodliness he committed. He will surely live and not die. 
18:29: Yet the house of Israel says, ‘The Lord’s way is not right.’ Is not My way right, O house of Israel? Is not your way wrong? 
18:30: I shall judge you, O house of Israel, each one according to his way,” says the Lord. “Return and turn away from all your ungodliness, and it shall not be to you as a punishment for wrongdoing. 
18:31: Cast away from yourself all your ungodliness you commit against Me, and make a new heart and a new spirit for yourselves. For why should you die, O house of Israel? 
18:32: For I do not will the death of the one who dies,” says the Lord.

