21:3: You will say to the forest of Nageb, ‘Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord and Master: “Behold, I will kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green wood and every dry wood in you. The blazing flame shall not be quenched, and every face from north to south shall be burned up by it. 
21:4: All flesh shall know that I, the Lord, kindled it, and it shall not be quenched.” ’ ” 
21:5: Then I said, “By no means, O Lord and Master. They say to me, ‘This is a parable, is it not?’ ” 
21:6: So the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
21:7: “Therefore, son of man, prophesy and set your face against Jerusalem, and look against the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel. 
21:8: You shall say to the land of Israel, ‘Behold, I am against you, and I will draw My sword out of its sheath and destroy both the unrighteous man and the lawless man from among you. 
21:9: Because I will destroy both the unrighteous man and the lawless man from among you, thus My sword shall go out of its sheath against all flesh from north to south, 
21:10: and all flesh will know that I, the Lord, have drawn My sword out of its sheath; and it shall not return anymore.’ 
21:11: As for you, son of man, groan with a breaking heart, and sigh with bitterness before their eyes. 
21:12: It will be, if they say to you, ‘Why are you groaning?’ that you shall say, ‘Because of the news, for it is coming. Every heart will be oppressed, all hands will be feeble, all flesh and every spirit will faint, and every thigh will be stained with urine. Behold, it is coming and will be,’ says the Lord and Master.” 
21:13: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
21:14: “Son of man, prophesy and you will say, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Say, ‘O sword, sword, be sharpened and furious, 
21:15: that you may slay victims. Be sharpened, that you may be glistening and ready for destruction. Despise and reject every tree.’ 
21:16: So he made it ready for his hand to hold. The sword is sharpened and ready to put in the hand of the slayer.’ ” 
21:17: “Cry out and wail, son of man, for this sword is come among My people; this sword is come among all the leaders of Israel. They shall be as strangers because of the sword that is come among My people; therefore, clap your hands, 
21:18: because it is justified; and what if even the tribe is rejected? It shall not be,” says the Lord and Master.

