22:1: Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham, and said to him, “Abraham! Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.” 
22:2: Then He said, “Take now your beloved son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a whole burnt offering on one of the mountains I tell you.” 
22:3: So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey; and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and he split firewood for the whole burnt offering, and arose and went to the place God told him. 
22:4: Then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. 
22:5: Thus Abraham said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey; the lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you.” 
22:6: So Abraham took the firewood of the whole burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. Then he took the fire in his hand, and a knife, and the two of them went together. 
22:7: Then Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, “My father.” And he said, “Here I am, my son.” Then he said, “Look, the fire and the firewood, but where is the sheep for a whole burnt offering?” 
22:8: And Abraham said, “My son, God will provide for Himself the sheep for a whole burnt offering.” So the two of them went together. 
22:9: They came to the place where God had told him. And Abraham built an altar there and placed the firewood in order; and he bound Isaac his son hand and foot and laid him on the altar, upon the firewood. 
22:10: Then Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. 
22:11: But the Angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, “Abraham! Abraham!” So he said, “Here I am.” 
22:12: He then replied, “Do not lay your hand on the lad, or do anything to him, for now I know you fear God, since for My sake you have not spared your beloved son.” 
22:13: Then Abraham lifted his eyes and looked, and there behind him a ram was caught in a thicket by its horns. So he brought it for a whole burnt offering in the place of his son. 
22:14: Thus Abraham called the name of the place, The-Lord-Has-Appeared; as it is said to this day, “In the mountain the Lord was seen.” 
22:15: Then the Angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time out of heaven, 
22:16: and said, “By Myself I have sworn, says the Lord, because you did this thing, and for My sake did not spare your beloved son. 
22:17: I will certainly bless you, and assuredly multiply your seed as the stars of heaven and as the sand on the seashore; and your seed shall inherit the cities of their enemies. 
22:18: In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you obeyed My voice.” 
22:19: So Abraham returned to his servants, and they rose and went together to the Well of Oath; and Abraham dwelt at the Well of Oath.

