6:5: Then the Lord God saw man’s wickedness, that it was great in the earth, and every intent of the thoughts within his heart was only evil continually. 
6:6: So God was grieved He made man on the earth, and He thought this over. 
6:7: Then God said, “I will blot out man whom I created from the face of the earth, from man to cattle, and from the creeping things to the birds of heaven, for I am grieved I made them.” 
6:8: But Noah found grace in the presence of the Lord God. 
6:9: This is the genealogy of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, who was perfect in his generation and well-pleasing to God. 
6:10: So Noah begot three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
6:11: Now the earth was corrupt before God, and filled with unrighteousness. 
6:12: Thus the Lord God looked upon the earth, and indeed it was corrupt; for all flesh corrupted their way on the earth. 
6:13: Then God said to Noah, “The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with unrighteousness through them; and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. 
6:14: Make yourself an ark of square timber. You shall make the ark in compartments, and cover it inside and outside with pitch. 
6:15: Thus you shall make the ark: three hundred cubits in length, fifty cubits in breadth, and thirty cubits in height. 
6:16: Now when you assemble the ark, you shall gradually finish it up to a cubit at the top, and set the door in its side. You shall make the ark with lower, second, and third stories. 
6:17: And behold, I am bringing a flood of water on the earth, to destroy from under heaven all flesh in which is the breath of life. Whatever is on the earth shall die. 
6:18: But I will establish My covenant with you; and you shall go into the ark you, your sons, your wife, and your sons’ wives with you. 
6:19: From every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every kind into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female. 
6:20: Of the birds after their kind, of animals after their kind, and of every creeping thing on the earth after its kind, two of every kind, they will enter into the ark with you, male and female, to keep them alive. 
6:21: You shall also take for yourself all kinds of food to eat, and you shall gather it both for yourself and for them.” 
6:22: Thus Noah did according to all the Lord God commanded him, so he did.
7:1: Then the Lord God said to Noah, “Enter the ark, you and all your family, because I have seen you righteous before Me in this generation. 
7:2: You shall also bring with you into the ark the clean cattle by sevens, male and female; and the unclean cattle by twos, male and female; 
7:3: and the clean birds of heaven by twos, male and female, to keep seed alive on the face of all the earth. 
7:4: For after seven more days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will blot out from the face of the earth every living thing I made.” 
7:5: So Noah did all the Lord God commanded him. 
7:6: Now Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came on the earth. 
7:7: Then Noah, with his sons, his wife, and his sons’ wives, entered the ark because of the flood waters. 
7:8: Also the clean and unclean birds, the clean and unclean cattle, and everything that creeps on the earth, 
7:9: entered with Noah into the ark, two by two, male and female, as God commanded him. 
7:10: Then it came to pass after seven days, the waters of the flood came upon the earth. 
7:11: In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day, all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the floodgates of heaven were opened. 
7:12: Then it rained on the earth forty days and forty nights. 
7:13: On the very same day Noah and his wife, his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and their wives, entered the ark. 
7:14: Also, all the wild animals after their kind, all cattle after their kind, every creeping thing moving upon the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, 
7:15: entered the ark with Noah, two by two, of all flesh in which is the breath of life. 
7:16: So those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God commanded him. Then the Lord God shut him in the ark. 
7:17: Now the flood was on the earth forty days and forty nights. The waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. 
7:18: So the waters prevailed and greatly increased on the earth, and the ark moved about on the surface of the waters. 
7:19: The waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth, and all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered. 
7:20: The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward, and covered all the high mountains. 
7:21: And all flesh died that moves on the earth: birds and cattle, wild animals, and every creeping thing that moves on the earth, and every man. 
7:22: Thus all things in whose nostrils was the breath of life, and everything on dry land, died. 
7:23: So He blotted out all living things on the face of the earth: both man and cattle, creeping things and the birds of heaven. They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah and those with him in the ark remained alive. 
7:24: Now the waters prevailed on the earth one hundred and fifty days.
8:1: Then God remembered Noah, and whatever was with him in the ark: all the wild animals, all the cattle, all the birds, and all the creeping things. And God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subsided. 
8:2: The fountains of the deep and the floodgates of heaven were also stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. 
8:3: And the waters receded continually from the earth. At the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters decreased. 
8:4: Then the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the mountains of Ararat. 
8:5: And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen. 
8:6: So it came to pass, at the end of forty days, Noah opened the window of the ark he made. 
8:7: Then he sent out a raven, which kept going to and fro until the waters dried up from the earth. 
8:8: He also sent out from himself a dove, to see if the waters had receded from the face of the ground. 
8:9: But the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot, and she returned to him in the ark, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took her, and brought her to himself in the ark. 
8:10: Then he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent out the dove from the ark. 
8:11: The dove returned to him in the evening, and behold, a freshly plucked olive leaf was in her mouth; and Noah knew the waters had receded from the earth. 
8:12: So he waited yet another seven days and again sent out the dove; however, she did not return to him anymore. 
8:13: And it came to pass in the six hundred and first year of Noah’s life, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from the earth; and Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and indeed, the surface of the ground was dry. 
8:14: Now in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dried. 
8:15: Then the Lord God spoke to Noah, saying, 
8:16: “Go out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and their wives with you. 
8:17: Also, bring out with you every living thing of all flesh: birds and cattle and every creeping thing that moves upon the earth, so they may abound on the earth, and increase and multiply on the earth.” 
8:18: So Noah went out, along with his wife and his sons and their wives. 
8:19: Every animal, every bird, and every creeping thing that moves upon the earth, according to their kind, went out of the ark. 
8:20: Then Noah built an altar to God, and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird, and offered whole burnt offerings on the altar. 
8:21: So the Lord God smelled a sweet aroma. Then the Lord God thought it over and said, “I will never again curse the earth because of man’s works, although the mind of man is diligently involved with evil things from his youth; nor will I again destroy every living thing as I have done. 
8:22: While the earth remains, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and spring shall not cease by day or by night.”
9:1: Thus God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them, “Increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and have dominion over it. 
9:2: For the dread and fear of you shall be upon all the wild animals of the earth, all the birds of heaven, all that move upon the earth, and all the fish of the sea. I have put them under your authority. 
9:3: Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. I have given you all things, even as I did the green herbs. 
9:4: But you shall not eat flesh with its lifeblood. 
9:5: Surely for your lifeblood I will demand a reckoning; from the hand of all the wild animals I will require it; and I will require the life of man at the hand of his fellow man. 
9:6: Whoever sheds man’s blood, by man his blood shall be shed; because I made man in God’s image. 
9:7: So then, increase and multiply; and fill the earth and have dominion over it.”

