48:1: Now it came to pass after these things that Joseph was told, “Indeed your father is sick;” and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, and went to Jacob. 
48:2: Thus Jacob was told, “Look, your son Joseph is coming to you;” and Israel strengthened himself and sat up on the bed. 
48:3: Then Jacob said to Joseph, “My God appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me 
48:4: and said to me, ‘Behold, I will increase and multiply you; and I will make of you a gathering of nations, and give this land to your seed after you as an everlasting possession.’ 
48:5: “Now therefore, your two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. 
48:6: Your offspring whom you beget after them shall take possession of their inheritances within the tribes of their brothers. 
48:7: But as for me, when I came from Mesopotamia of Syria, Rachel died beside me in the land of Canaan on the way, when there was but a little distance to go to Ephrath; and I buried her there on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).” 
48:8: Then Israel saw Joseph’s sons, and said, “Who are these with you?” 
48:9: So Joseph said to his father, “They are my sons God gave me here.” Jacob then said, “Bring them to me that I may bless them.” 
48:10: Now the eyes of Israel were dim by reason of old age, and he could not see. Then Joseph brought them near him, and he kissed and embraced them. 
48:11: Then Israel said to Joseph, “I had not thought to see your face; but in fact, God has also shown me your seed.” 
48:12: So Joseph brought them from beside his knees, and they bowed down with their face to the ground. 
48:13: Then Joseph took them both, Ephraim with his right hand toward Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh with his left hand toward Israel’s right hand, and brought them near him. 
48:14: Thus Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on Ephraim’s head, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh’s head, guiding his hands knowingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn. 
48:15: Then he blessed them, and said: “God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac were well-pleasing, The God who has fed me all my life long to this day, 
48:16: The Angel who redeemed me from all evil, Bless these lads; Let my name be named upon them, And the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; And let them grow into a great multitude in the midst of the earth.” 
48:17: Now when Joseph saw his father put his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him; so he took hold of his father’s hand to remove it from Ephraim’s head to Manasseh’s head. 
48:18: So Joseph said to his father, “Not so, my father, for this one is the firstborn; put your right hand on his head.” 
48:19: But his father refused and said,” I know, my son, I know. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be exalted; but truly, his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations.”

