40:9: O you who bring good tidings to Zion, go into the high mountain; O you who bring good tidings to Jerusalem, lift up your voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid. Say to the cities of Judah, “Behold your God.” 
40:10: Behold, the Lord is coming with strength, and His arm is with authority. Behold, His reward is with Him, and His work before Him. 
40:11: He will feed His flock like a shepherd and gather the lambs with His arm; and He will comfort those with young. 
40:12: Who measured the water in His hand, and heaven with a span, and all the earth with a handful? Who weighed the mountains in scales and the vales in a balance? 
40:13: Who knows the Lord’s mind, and who was His counselor; who advises Him? 
40:14: Or with whom does He take counsel, who instructs Him, and who teaches Him judgment and shows Him the way of understanding? 
40:15: The nations are as a drop in a bucket and are counted as the balance of a scale; and they are counted as spittle. 
40:16: Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor its four-footed animals sufficient for a whole burnt offering. 
40:17: All nations are as nothing and are counted as nothing. 
40:18: To whom then will you liken the Lord, and to what likeness will you compare Him? 
40:19: Has the workman made an image, or has the goldsmith overspread it with gold, gilding it, making a likeness of Him? 
40:20: For the workman chooses wood that will not rot, and skillfully seeks to prepare a carved image that will not totter. 
40:21: Will you not know? Will you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Do you not know the foundations of the earth? 
40:22: It is He who possesses the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. It is He who stretches out heaven like a vault, and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in. 
40:23: He makes the rulers He establishes to rule to be as nothing; He makes the earth as nothing. 
40:24: Scarcely shall they be planted, scarcely shall they be sown, scarcely shall their stock take root in the earth, when He shall also blow on them and they will wither, and the whirlwind will take them away like stubble. 
40:25: “Now then, to whom will you liken Me, that I should be exalted?” says the Holy One. 
40:26: Lift up your eyes on high, and see. Who displayed these things? He who brings forth their host by number; He who calls them all by name. From the greatness of His glory to the strength of His might, nothing escapes Your notice. 
40:27: For why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, saying, “My way is hidden from God, and my God took away my judgment and departed”? 
40:28: So then, have you not known? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the God who created the ends of the earth, neither hungers nor is weary. His understanding is unsearchable. 
40:29: He gives strength to the hungry, and sorrow to those who do not grieve. 
40:30: Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the elect shall be without strength. 
40:31: But those who wait on God shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not hunger.

