27:11: And after a time, there will be nothing green in it because of the withering. Come here, you women who come from that sight. For it is a people of no understanding; therefore He who made them will have no compassion on them, neither He who formed them; and He will show them no mercy. 
27:12: And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord will close it from the channel of the river to the Brook of Egypt. And you will gather the sons of Israel one by one. 
27:13: So it shall be in that day that they shall blow the great trumpet, and the lost ones in the country of the Assyrians and in Egypt will come, and they shall worship the Lord on the holy mountain in Jerusalem.
28:1: Woe to the crown of arrogance, the hirelings of Ephraim, the flower that fell from the glory on top of the fertile mountain, those who are drunk without wine. 
28:2: Behold, the anger of the Lord is a strong and harsh thing, like a falling hail where there is no shelter, falling violently like a great force of water, sweeping away the country. He shall bring relief for the earth with His hands. 
28:3: The crown of arrogance, the hirelings of Ephraim, will be trampled underfoot. 
28:4: But the flower that fell from the hope of the glory on the top of the high mountain shall be like the forerunner of the fig. He who sees it wishes to swallow it before he gets it in his hand. 
28:5: In that day, the Lord of hosts shall be the crown of hope, woven of glory, to the remnant of My people. 
28:6: They shall be left in a spirit of judgment upon judgment and for the strength of those who prevent slaying. 
28:7: For these are led astray with wine and are deceived by strong drink. Priest and prophet are out of their minds by reason of wine; they stagger because of drunkenness; they go astray. This is delusion. 
28:8: A curse will devour this counsel, for this counsel was for the sake of covetousness. 
28:9: To whom have we reported evils and declared a message? Those weaned from milk and withdrawn from the breasts. 
28:10: Expect affliction upon affliction, hope upon hope, yet a little, yet a little. 
28:11: By reason of the contempt of lips and another tongue they will speak to this people, 
28:12: saying to them, “This is the rest for the hungry, and this is the affliction,” but they would not listen. 
28:13: The teaching of the Lord God will be for them affliction upon affliction, hope upon hope, yet a little, yet a little, so they may go and fall backward; and they will be in danger, crushed and conquered. 
28:14: Therefore hear the word of the Lord, you afflicted men and rulers of this people in Jerusalem. 
28:15: Because you said, “We made a covenant with Hades, and are in agreement with death, and if the rushing storm passes through, it will not come upon us, for we made falsehood our hope, and in falsehood we shall be protected”;

