52:13: Behold, My Servant shall have wisdom, and He shall be exalted and glorified exceedingly. 
52:14: Just as many shall be astonished at You, so Your form and glory shall be dishonored by men. 
52:15: Thus many nations shall marvel at Him, and kings shall shut their mouth, because they to whom no report was brought concerning Him shall see; and they who did not hear shall understand.
53:1: O Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom was the arm of the Lord revealed? 
53:2: We proclaimed His presence as a Child, as a Root in a thirsty land. He had no form or glory, and we saw Him; and He had no form or beauty. 
53:3: But in comparison to all men, His form was lacking in honor. He was a man in suffering and knew how to bear sickness. His face was turned away, and He was dishonored and not esteemed. 
53:4: He bears our sins and suffers for us, yet we considered Him to be in pain, suffering, and ill-treatment. 
53:5: But He was wounded because of our lawlessness, and became sick because of our sins. The chastisement of our peace was upon Him, and by His bruise we are healed. 
53:6: All we like sheep have gone astray. Man has gone astray in his way, and the Lord delivered Him over for our sins. 
53:7: Although He was ill-treated, He opened not His mouth. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb is silent before his shearers, so He opens not His mouth. 
53:8: In His humiliation His judgment was taken away, and who will declare His generation? For His life is taken from the earth, and because of the lawlessness of My people He was led to death. 
53:9: I will appoint evil men for His burial and rich men for His death, because He committed no lawlessness, nor was deceit found in His mouth. 
53:10: The Lord wishes to cleanse Him of His wound, and if You give an offering for sin, Your soul shall see a long-lived seed. 
53:11: The Lord wishes to take away the pain of His soul, to show Him light, to form Him with understanding, and to pronounce righteous the Righteous One who serves many well; and He shall bear their sins. 
53:12: Therefore He shall inherit many, and will divide the spoil with the strong, because His soul was delivered over to death. He was considered among the lawless, and He bore the sins of many, and was delivered over because of their sins.

