8:15: For behold, I send forth lethal serpents among you, for which there are no charms. 
8:16: They shall bite you mortally with the pain of your disturbed heart. 
8:17: “Behold, the voice of the daughter of my people cries out from a far land, ‘Is not the Lord in Zion? Is her King not there?’ No, because they provoked Me to anger with their carved images and foreign vanities. 
8:18: They will say, ‘The summer is gone, the harvest is past, and we are not saved.’ ” 
8:19: I am saddened because of the ruin of the daughter of my people. Pains have seized me, as one who gives birth. 
8:20: Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician? Why is no healing taking place for the daughter of my people? 
8:21: Who will give water to my head and a fountain of tears to my eyes, that I might weep day and night for this people of mine, for the wounded of the daughter of my people? 
9:1: Who will give me lodging in a deserted place, that I might leave my people, and depart from them? For they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men. 
9:2: “They bent their tongues like a bow. Falsehood, not faith, prevails in the land. For they went from evil to evil, and have not known Me. 
9:3: Let each take heed to his neighbor, and not trust their brothers, for every brother will utterly deceive, and every friend will walk treacherously. 
9:4: Each will mock at his friend, and not speak the truth. Their tongue learns to speak lies, and they do wrong. They do not pause to turn back. 
9:5: There is usury upon usury; deceit upon deceit. They are unwilling to know Me.” 
9:6: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will set them on fire, and test them; I shall do so because of the evil of the daughter of My people. 
9:7: Their tongue is a wounding arrow, and the words of their mouth are deceitful. One speaks peaceably to his neighbor, but has hatred in his heart. 
9:8: Shall I not visit them for these things?” says the Lord. “Shall not My soul take vengeance on such a people as this? 
9:9: Take up a wailing on the mountains, and a lamentation on the paths of the desert; for they cease from being a people. They do not hear the sound of existence from the birds of the sky, nor even from cattle. They were astonished; they were gone. 
9:10: I will put Jerusalem into captivity, and it will become a dwelling place of serpents. I will make the cities of Judah desolate, beyond habitation.” 
9:11: Who is a wise man? Let him understand this. Let him declare to you by the word of the Lord to him, why the land was ravaged by fire, and became like a desert no one could pass through. 
9:12: The Lord answered me, “Because they forsook My law which I set before their face, and they did not hear My voice. 
9:13: Instead, they walked after what pleased their evil heart, and after the idols their fathers taught them.” 
9:14: Therefore, thus says the Lord God of Israel: “Behold, I will feed them as a matter of necessity, and give them the water of bitterness to drink. 
9:15: I will also scatter them among the Gentiles, amongst whom neither they nor their fathers are known. I shall send a sword after them, until I consume them with it.” 
9:16: Thus says the Lord: “Call for the mourning women, and let them come. Send for the wise women, and let them give utterance. 
9:17: Let them take up a lamentation over you. Let your eyes run with tears, and your eyelids flow with water. 
9:18: For a voice of wailing is heard from Zion, ‘How we have been afflicted and greatly ashamed, because we forsook the land and were cast out of our dwellings.’ ” 
9:19: Indeed, O women, hear the word of God, and let your ear receive the words of His mouth. Teach your daughters wailing, and a woman a lamentation to all her neighbors. 
9:20: For death will come through your windows, and enter your land, to destroy the children from outside and the youth from the streets. 
9:21: The dead men shall be as an example in the open country of your land, like grass after it is mowed, when there shall be none to gather it. 
9:22: Thus says the Lord: “Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, nor let not the mighty man boast in his might, nor let the rich man boast in his riches. 
9:23: Instead, let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows that I am the Lord, who shows mercy, judgment and righteousness on earth, for in these is My will,” says the Lord. 
9:24: “Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, “that I will visit upon all the circumcised their uncircumcision. 
9:25: I will visit Egypt, Judea, Edom, the sons of Ammon and the sons of Moab, and all who dwell in the desert—all who shave their face. For all these nations are uncircumcised in the flesh, but all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in their heart.” 
10:1: O house of Israel, hear the word of the Lord, for He has spoken to you. 
10:2: Thus says the Lord: “Do not learn the ways of the Gentiles, and do not be afraid because of signs from the sky, for they themselves reverence these. 
10:3: For the customs of the peoples are vain. This vanity is a tree cut from the forest, the work of a craftsman, or it is a molten image. 
10:4: They are embellished with silver and gold with a hammer, and they strengthen them with nails, so they will not move. 
10:5: They will be taken up and carried, for they cannot walk by themselves. Do not be afraid of them, because they cannot do evil, nor is there any good thing in them. 
10:6: The silver is worked in relief, and they cannot travel anywhere. The silver overlays come from Tarshish, the gold from Uphaz. All handiwork is the work of goldsmiths and craftsmen, and they will dress them in hyacinth and purple.” 
10:7: Thus you shall say to them, “Let the gods that did not make heaven and earth perish from the earth and from under this heaven.” 
10:8: The Lord—who made the earth in His strength, who restores the inhabited world in His wisdom and discernment—stretched out heaven, 
10:9: and the abundance of water in heaven; and He brings up clouds from the ends of the earth. He made lightning for the rain, and brings light out of His storehouses. 
10:10: Every man is made foolish because of this knowledge, and every goldsmith is put to shame by his carved images; because they cast false gods that have no spirit in them. 
10:11: They are vain works that are ridiculed, and in the time of His visitation, they shall be destroyed. 
10:12: Such is not the portion for Jacob, for He who formed all things is Jacob’s inheritance. The Lord is His name. 
10:13: This inheritance resides in the elect, and gathers together your existence outside the land. 
10:14: For thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will overthrow those who reside in this land with affliction, that your wound might be discovered.” 
10:15: Alas for your ruin! Your wound is painful, and I say, “Indeed, this is my wound, and it overtakes me. 
10:16: My tabernacle endures hardship, and is ruined, and all my skin coverings are torn apart. My sons and my sheep are no more, and there is no place left for my tent, nor for my curtains. 
10:17: For the shepherds act foolishly, and no longer seek out the Lord. Therefore, the whole pasture does not understand, thus the sheep are scattered. 
10:18: Behold, there is a sound of news, and an earthquake comes from the land of the north, to cause the cities of Judah to disappear, making them the nesting place of sparrows. 
10:19: I know, O Lord, that man’s way is not his own, nor will a man go and prosper in his own pursuit. 
10:20: Chastise us, O Lord, but with judgment, and not in anger, lest You make our numbers few. 
10:21: Pour out Your anger on the Gentiles who do not know You, and on the generations who did not call on Your name; because they devoured Jacob, and utterly destroyed him, and they laid waste his pasture. 
11:1: The word came from the Lord to Jeremiah, saying, 
11:2: “Hear the words of this covenant, and you shall speak to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
11:3: You shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord God of Israel: “Cursed is the man who will not hear the words of this covenant, 
11:4: which I commanded your fathers in the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, ‘Hear My voice, and do all I command you, so you shall be to Me as a people and I will be to you as God, 
11:5: that I may confirm the oath I swore to your fathers, to give to them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is today.’ ” Then I answered and said, “O Lord, may it be so.” 
11:6: Then the Lord said to me, “Read aloud these words in the cities of Judah and outside Jerusalem, saying, ‘Hear the words of this covenant and do them.’ ” 
11:7: But they did not. 
11:8: Again the Lord said to me, “A conspiracy was found among the men of Judah and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
11:9: They turned back to the wrongdoings of their forefathers who were unwilling to hear My words. Behold, they go after foreign gods to serve them. Both the house of Israel and the house of Judah rejected My covenant which I made with their fathers.” 
11:10: Therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will bring calamities on this people from which they cannot escape; and they shall cry out to Me, but I will not listen. 
11:11: Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry out to the gods to whom they offer incense. But will they save them in the time of their calamities? 
11:12: O Judah, your gods were based on the number of your cities, and according to the number of streets in Jerusalem, you appointed altars to burn incense to Baal. 
11:13: “Do not pray for this people, and do not consider them worthy in petition; for I will not hear their prayer in the time they cry out to Me, or in the time of their distress. 
11:14: Why has My beloved done a detestable thing in My house? Will prayers and holy offerings remove your vices from you? Will you escape by means of these? 
11:15: The Lord called your name a pleasant olive tree, a good shade tree in appearance. At the sound of its pruning, a fire was kindled against it. Great is the affliction coming upon you. Its branches have become worthless. 
11:16: For the Lord who planted you has proclaimed troubles against you in return for the evil the house of Israel and the house of Judah did against themselves when they offered incense to Baal, and provoked My wrath.” 
11:17: O Lord, teach me, and I will know. Then I saw their purpose. 
11:18: For I did not know I was like an innocent lamb, led to be sacrificed. They plotted an evil device against me, saying, “Come, let us put wood in his bread, and destroy him root and branch from the land of the living, so his name might not be remembered any longer.” 
11:19: But, O Lord, You who judge righteously, who tests minds and hearts, let me see Your vengeance on them, for I have revealed my righteous plea to You. 
11:20: “Therefore thus says the Lord, against the men of Anathoth, against those who seek my life, and who say, ‘Do not prophesy in the name of the Lord, lest you die by our hands’—
11:21: Behold, I will visit them. The young men shall die by the sword, and their sons and daughters shall die by famine. 
11:22: There shall be no remnant of them, for I will bring calamities on the inhabitants of Anathoth in the year of their visitation.” 
12:1: O Lord, You are righteous, that I may plead my case with You, to speak to You concerning judgments. Why does the way of the ungodly prosper, and all who deal treacherously flourish? 
12:2: You planted them, and they took root. They bear children, and are fruitful. You are near in their mouth, but far from their mind. 
12:3: But You, O Lord, know me. You have proven my heart before You. Set them apart for the day of slaughter. 
12:4: How long will the land mourn, and the grass of the field wither, because of the vices of those who dwell in it? The cattle and the birds are destroyed, because they said, “God will not see our ways.” 
12:5: “Your feet run, and grow weary. How then will you prepare yourself to run with horses? You are confident when the land is peaceful, but what will you do when the Jordan floods the land? 
12:6: But even your brothers and the house of your father dealt treacherously with you. They cried out, and gathered together in pursuit of you. Do not trust them, because they will speak fair words to you. 
12:7: “I forsook My house, and left My inheritance. I gave My beloved inheritance into the hands of its enemies. 
12:8: For My inheritance became to Me like a lion in the forest. It raised its voice against Me; therefore, I hated it. 
12:9: Is not My inheritance the cave of a hyena to Me, or a cave it walks around? Gather together all the wild beasts of the field, and let them come to devour her. 
12:10: Many shepherds destroyed My vineyard, and defiled My portion. They turned My pleasant portion into an impassable desert. It was made a complete ruin. The whole land was utterly destroyed for My sake, because there was no man who took it to heart. 
12:12: The tormentors come to every passage in the desert, because the sword of the Lord will devour from one end of the land to the other. No flesh has any peace. 
12:13: Sow fires, and reap thorns. Their portions will not profit them. Be ashamed of your boasting because of your disgrace before the Lord.” 
12:14: For thus says the Lord: “Concerning all the evil neighbors who touch My inheritance, which I divided to My people Israel—behold, I shall draw them away from their land, and will cast out Judah from their midst. 
12:15: Then it shall come to pass, after I cast them out, that I will return them, and have mercy on them. I will settle them, each in his inheritance and each in his land. 
12:16: It shall be, that if they carefully learn the way of My people, to swear by My name, saying, ‘The Lord lives,’ as they taught My people to swear by Baal, so they shall be built as a nation in the midst of My people. 
12:17: But if they do not return, I will remove that nation by destruction and ruin.” 
13:1: Thus says the Lord: “Go and get yourself a linen sash, and put it around your waist, but let it not pass through the water.” 
13:2: So I got the sash according to the word of the Lord, and put it around my waist. 
13:3: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:4: “Take the sash from around your waist. Arise, and go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole in the rock.” 
13:5: So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the Lord commanded me. 
13:6: Again it came to pass, that after many days the Lord also said to me, “Arise, and go to the Euphrates, and take from there the sash I commanded you to hide there.” 
13:7: Then I went to the Euphrates River, and dug, and took the sash from the place where I buried it. Behold, it was rotted, and good for nothing. 
13:8: Then, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:9: “Thus says the Lord: ‘In this manner I will destroy the insolence of Judah and that of Jerusalem. 
13:10: The great insolence of those who are unwilling to obey My words, and who walk after foreign gods, to serve and worship them, they shall be like this sash—good for nothing. 
13:11: For as a sash clings to the waist of a man, so I caused the house of Israel and the whole house of Judah to cling to Me, so as to become a notable people to Me, as a boast and a glory; but they would not listen to Me.’ 
13:12: “Thus you shall say to this people: ‘Every bottle shall be filled with wine.’ But if they say to you, ‘Do we not know for certain every bottle will be filled with wine?’ 
13:13: Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land with intoxicating drink: their kings, the sons of David who sit on his throne, their priests, their prophets, and Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
13:14: I will scatter them, a man and his brother, together with their fathers and their sons. I will not desire them,” says the Lord, “nor spare them, nor have compassion on them in their destruction.” ’ ” 
13:15: Listen, and give ear. Do not exalt yourselves, for the Lord has spoken. 
13:16: Give glory to the Lord your God before it grows dark, and causes your feet to stumble on the dark mountains. You shall wait in anticipation of the light, but the shadow of death will be there; and they shall bring you into darkness. 
13:17: Now if you will not hear, your soul will weep secretly because of your insolent countenance, and your eyes will bring forth tears, for the Lord’s flock is broken apart. 
13:18: Say to the king and to the nobles, “Humble yourself, and sit down, for your crown of glory is removed from your head.” 
13:19: The cities to the South were shut, and there was no one to open them. Judah is sent away completely as a settlement. 
13:20: Lift up your eyes, O Jerusalem, and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock given to you, the sheep of your glory? 
13:21: What will you say when they visit you? For you taught them lessons in the beginning against yourself. Shall not pains of agony seize you, like a woman who gives birth? 
13:22: But if you say in your heart, “Why have these things happened to me?” Because of the multitude of your wrongdoings, your backside was uncovered, so your heels might be exposed. 
13:23: If an Ethiopian could change his skin, or a leopard its spots, so you who learned evil might also be able to do good. 
13:24: “Therefore I scattered them like sticks, carried by the wind into the desert. 
13:25: This is your lot and your portion for your disobedience against Me,” says the Lord, “because you forgot Me, and trusted in falsehoods. 
13:26: I will uncover your backside to your face, and your dishonor will be seen. 
13:27: For I have seen your adultery and neighing, and the alienation of your fornication; the abomination of your fornication on the hills and in the fields. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! For you were not cleansed, so as to follow Me. How long will it still be?” 
14:1: The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah concerning the drought, saying, 
14:2: “Judah mourns, and her gates are empty. They are darkened in the land, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up. 
14:3: Her nobles sent their young ones for water, but they found no water in the wells. So they returned with their water containers empty. 
14:4: The works of the land failed, for there was no rain. The farmers were ashamed, and covered their heads. 
14:5: The deer also gave birth in the field, but left, because there was no grass. 
14:6: The wild donkeys stood in the wooded glens, and sniffed the wind. Their eyes failed, for there was no grass because of the wrongdoing of the people.” 
14:7: Our sins rise up against us, O Lord. Do to us for Your sake, because our sins are many before You; for we sinned against You. 
14:8: O Lord, the steadfast endurance of Israel, You deliver us in the time of evils. Why have You become as a sojourner in the land, and like a native of the land who turns elsewhere to lodge? 
14:9: Will You be like a man who sleeps, or as a man who is unable to save? But You are in our midst, O Lord, and we are called by Your name. Do not forget us. 
14:10: Thus says the Lord to this people: “They love to wander, and have not refrained from it; therefore, God is not pleased with them. Now He will remember their wrongdoings.” 
14:11: Again the Lord said to me, “Do not pray about this people for their good. 
14:12: When they fast, I will not hear their petition, and when they present whole burnt offerings and sacrifices, I will not take pleasure in them. For I will consume them by the sword, by the famine, and by death.” 
14:13: Then I said, “O Lord, behold their prophets prophesying, and say, ‘You shall not see the sword, nor shall there be famine among you; for I will give you truth and peace in the land, and in this place.’ ” 
14:14: Then the Lord said to me, “The prophets prophesy lies in My name. I have not sent them, nor commanded them; nor have I spoken to them. Because of false visions, divinations, prophesying by the way of birds, and by the purposes of their hearts, they prophesy to you. 
14:15: Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the prophets who prophesy lies in My name: ‘I did not send them.’ They say, ‘Sword and famine shall not be upon this land.’ They shall die in the deathbed of sickness, for the prophets shall die in famine. 
14:16: The people to whom they prophesy shall be cast into the thoroughfares of Jerusalem because of the edge of the sword and famine. There shall be no one to bury them, for even their wives, sons, and daughters shall so die. I will pour out their evils upon them. 
14:17: “So you shall speak this word to them: ‘Let your eyes flow with tears night and day. Let them not cease; for in ruin, the daughter of My people was crushed to pieces, and her wound was very painful. 
14:18: If I go out into the plain, then behold, there are the soldiers wounded by the sword. If I enter into the city, then behold, there is the pain of famine, for priest and prophet have traveled to a land they do not know.’ ” 
14:19: Have You utterly rejected Judah? Has Your soul departed from Zion? Why did You strike us, and there is no healing for us? We waited for peace, but there was no good thing; for a time of healing, but behold, there was trouble. 
14:20: We know, O Lord, our sins and the wrongdoings of our fathers, for we sinned against You. 
14:21: Stop for Your name’s sake. Do not destroy the throne of Your glory. Remember, and do not break Your covenant with us. 
14:22: Is there anyone among the idols of the Gentiles able to cause rain? Or will the sky yield its fullness at their request? Are You not He? Therefore, since You made all these things, we will wait for You. 
15:1: Then the Lord said to me, “Even if Moses and Samuel stood before Me, My soul would not be favorable toward them. Send away this people, and let them depart. 
15:2: It shall be, that if they say to you, ‘Where should we depart?’ you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “As many as are for death, to death, and as many as are for the sword, to the sword, and as many as are for famine, to famine, and as many as are for captivity, to captivity.” ’ 
15:3: I will punish them in four ways,” says the Lord, “the sword for slaughter, the dogs for tearing in pieces, the wild beasts of the earth and the birds of the sky for eating and destruction. 
15:4: I will deliver them into distress, to all the kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh, son of Hezekiah the king of Judah, for all he did in Jerusalem. 
15:5: “Who will spare you, O Jerusalem? Who will fear for you? Who will turn back to ask peace for you? 
15:6: You turned away from Me,” says the Lord. “You will go backward, and I will stretch out My hand, and destroy you. I will no longer leave them unpunished. 
15:7: I will scatter them in a dispersion. In the gates of My people, they are deprived of children. They destroyed My people because of their vices. 
15:8: Their widows multiply more than the sand of the sea. I brought upon the mother of a young son misery at midday. I suddenly cast upon her trembling and anxiety. 
15:9: She who gave birth to seven has been left empty, and her soul has succumbed to misfortune. The sun set for her when it was still noonday. She was put to shame and insulted. I will give their remnant to the sword in the presence of their enemies.” 
15:10: Woe is me, my mother! You gave birth to me as a man who is condemned and at variance with the whole earth. I have neither helped anyone, nor has anyone helped me. My strength has failed among those who curse me. O Master, may this be the time of their prosperity. Surely I stood before You in the time of their calamities and in the time of their affliction for their good against the enemy. 
15:12: The Lord says, “Will iron be known? But your strength is a bronze covering. 
15:13: I will give your treasures as plunder in all your boundaries, in exchange for all your sins. 
15:14: For I will enslave you to your surrounding enemies, in a land you have not known. For a fire has been kindled from My anger, and it shall burn upon you.” 
15:15: O Lord, remember me, and visit me. Let me go unpunished because of those who persecute me. Do not bear long with them. Know how I have met with disgrace for Your sake at the hands of those who reject Your words. 
15:16: Make an end to them, and Your word shall be the gladness and joy of my heart; for I am called by Your name, O Lord, the Almighty. 
15:17: I did not sit in their council while they mocked, but I feared because of Your power. I sat alone, for I was filled with bitterness. 
15:18: Why do those who grieve me prevail against me? My wound is severe, but from where will I be healed? It has indeed become to me as deceitful water, that has no faithfulness. 
15:19: Therefore thus says the Lord: “If you return, I will restore you, and you shall stand before My face. If you bring forth what is honorable from what is unworthy, you shall be as My mouth. They shall return to you, but you shall not return to them. 
15:20: I will cause you to be like a strong brazen wall to this people. They will fight against you, but not prevail, because I am with you to save you, 
15:21: to deliver you from the hand of evil men, and to set you free from the hand of pestilent men.”
9:1: Who will give me lodging in a deserted place, that I might leave my people, and depart from them? For they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men. 
9:2: “They bent their tongues like a bow. Falsehood, not faith, prevails in the land. For they went from evil to evil, and have not known Me. 
9:3: Let each take heed to his neighbor, and not trust their brothers, for every brother will utterly deceive, and every friend will walk treacherously. 
9:4: Each will mock at his friend, and not speak the truth. Their tongue learns to speak lies, and they do wrong. They do not pause to turn back. 
9:5: There is usury upon usury; deceit upon deceit. They are unwilling to know Me.” 
9:6: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will set them on fire, and test them; I shall do so because of the evil of the daughter of My people.

