11:17: O Lord, teach me, and I will know. Then I saw their purpose. 
11:18: For I did not know I was like an innocent lamb, led to be sacrificed. They plotted an evil device against me, saying, “Come, let us put wood in his bread, and destroy him root and branch from the land of the living, so his name might not be remembered any longer.” 
11:19: But, O Lord, You who judge righteously, who tests minds and hearts, let me see Your vengeance on them, for I have revealed my righteous plea to You. 
11:20: “Therefore thus says the Lord, against the men of Anathoth, against those who seek my life, and who say, ‘Do not prophesy in the name of the Lord, lest you die by our hands’—
11:21: Behold, I will visit them. The young men shall die by the sword, and their sons and daughters shall die by famine. 
11:22: There shall be no remnant of them, for I will bring calamities on the inhabitants of Anathoth in the year of their visitation.” 
12:1: O Lord, You are righteous, that I may plead my case with You, to speak to You concerning judgments. Why does the way of the ungodly prosper, and all who deal treacherously flourish? 
12:2: You planted them, and they took root. They bear children, and are fruitful. You are near in their mouth, but far from their mind. 
12:3: But You, O Lord, know me. You have proven my heart before You. Set them apart for the day of slaughter. 
12:4: How long will the land mourn, and the grass of the field wither, because of the vices of those who dwell in it? The cattle and the birds are destroyed, because they said, “God will not see our ways.” 
12:5: “Your feet run, and grow weary. How then will you prepare yourself to run with horses? You are confident when the land is peaceful, but what will you do when the Jordan floods the land? 
12:6: But even your brothers and the house of your father dealt treacherously with you. They cried out, and gathered together in pursuit of you. Do not trust them, because they will speak fair words to you. 
12:7: “I forsook My house, and left My inheritance. I gave My beloved inheritance into the hands of its enemies. 
12:8: For My inheritance became to Me like a lion in the forest. It raised its voice against Me; therefore, I hated it. 
12:9: Is not My inheritance the cave of a hyena to Me, or a cave it walks around? Gather together all the wild beasts of the field, and let them come to devour her. 
12:10: Many shepherds destroyed My vineyard, and defiled My portion. They turned My pleasant portion into an impassable desert. It was made a complete ruin. The whole land was utterly destroyed for My sake, because there was no man who took it to heart. 
12:12: The tormentors come to every passage in the desert, because the sword of the Lord will devour from one end of the land to the other. No flesh has any peace. 
12:13: Sow fires, and reap thorns. Their portions will not profit them. Be ashamed of your boasting because of your disgrace before the Lord.” 
12:14: For thus says the Lord: “Concerning all the evil neighbors who touch My inheritance, which I divided to My people Israel—behold, I shall draw them away from their land, and will cast out Judah from their midst. 
12:15: Then it shall come to pass, after I cast them out, that I will return them, and have mercy on them. I will settle them, each in his inheritance and each in his land. 
12:16: It shall be, that if they carefully learn the way of My people, to swear by My name, saying, ‘The Lord lives,’ as they taught My people to swear by Baal, so they shall be built as a nation in the midst of My people. 
12:17: But if they do not return, I will remove that nation by destruction and ruin.” 
13:1: Thus says the Lord: “Go and get yourself a linen sash, and put it around your waist, but let it not pass through the water.” 
13:2: So I got the sash according to the word of the Lord, and put it around my waist. 
13:3: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:4: “Take the sash from around your waist. Arise, and go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole in the rock.” 
13:5: So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the Lord commanded me. 
13:6: Again it came to pass, that after many days the Lord also said to me, “Arise, and go to the Euphrates, and take from there the sash I commanded you to hide there.” 
13:7: Then I went to the Euphrates River, and dug, and took the sash from the place where I buried it. Behold, it was rotted, and good for nothing. 
13:8: Then, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
13:9: “Thus says the Lord: ‘In this manner I will destroy the insolence of Judah and that of Jerusalem. 
13:10: The great insolence of those who are unwilling to obey My words, and who walk after foreign gods, to serve and worship them, they shall be like this sash—good for nothing. 
13:11: For as a sash clings to the waist of a man, so I caused the house of Israel and the whole house of Judah to cling to Me, so as to become a notable people to Me, as a boast and a glory; but they would not listen to Me.’ 
13:12: “Thus you shall say to this people: ‘Every bottle shall be filled with wine.’ But if they say to you, ‘Do we not know for certain every bottle will be filled with wine?’ 
13:13: Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land with intoxicating drink: their kings, the sons of David who sit on his throne, their priests, their prophets, and Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
13:14: I will scatter them, a man and his brother, together with their fathers and their sons. I will not desire them,” says the Lord, “nor spare them, nor have compassion on them in their destruction.” ’ ” 
13:15: Listen, and give ear. Do not exalt yourselves, for the Lord has spoken. 
13:16: Give glory to the Lord your God before it grows dark, and causes your feet to stumble on the dark mountains. You shall wait in anticipation of the light, but the shadow of death will be there; and they shall bring you into darkness. 
13:17: Now if you will not hear, your soul will weep secretly because of your insolent countenance, and your eyes will bring forth tears, for the Lord’s flock is broken apart. 
13:18: Say to the king and to the nobles, “Humble yourself, and sit down, for your crown of glory is removed from your head.” 
13:19: The cities to the South were shut, and there was no one to open them. Judah is sent away completely as a settlement. 
13:20: Lift up your eyes, O Jerusalem, and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock given to you, the sheep of your glory? 
13:21: What will you say when they visit you? For you taught them lessons in the beginning against yourself. Shall not pains of agony seize you, like a woman who gives birth? 
13:22: But if you say in your heart, “Why have these things happened to me?” Because of the multitude of your wrongdoings, your backside was uncovered, so your heels might be exposed. 
13:23: If an Ethiopian could change his skin, or a leopard its spots, so you who learned evil might also be able to do good. 
13:24: “Therefore I scattered them like sticks, carried by the wind into the desert. 
13:25: This is your lot and your portion for your disobedience against Me,” says the Lord, “because you forgot Me, and trusted in falsehoods. 
13:26: I will uncover your backside to your face, and your dishonor will be seen. 
13:27: For I have seen your adultery and neighing, and the alienation of your fornication; the abomination of your fornication on the hills and in the fields. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! For you were not cleansed, so as to follow Me. How long will it still be?” 
14:1: The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah concerning the drought, saying, 
14:2: “Judah mourns, and her gates are empty. They are darkened in the land, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up. 
14:3: Her nobles sent their young ones for water, but they found no water in the wells. So they returned with their water containers empty. 
14:4: The works of the land failed, for there was no rain. The farmers were ashamed, and covered their heads. 
14:5: The deer also gave birth in the field, but left, because there was no grass. 
14:6: The wild donkeys stood in the wooded glens, and sniffed the wind. Their eyes failed, for there was no grass because of the wrongdoing of the people.” 
14:7: Our sins rise up against us, O Lord. Do to us for Your sake, because our sins are many before You; for we sinned against You. 
14:8: O Lord, the steadfast endurance of Israel, You deliver us in the time of evils. Why have You become as a sojourner in the land, and like a native of the land who turns elsewhere to lodge? 
14:9: Will You be like a man who sleeps, or as a man who is unable to save? But You are in our midst, O Lord, and we are called by Your name. Do not forget us. 
14:10: Thus says the Lord to this people: “They love to wander, and have not refrained from it; therefore, God is not pleased with them. Now He will remember their wrongdoings.” 
14:11: Again the Lord said to me, “Do not pray about this people for their good. 
14:12: When they fast, I will not hear their petition, and when they present whole burnt offerings and sacrifices, I will not take pleasure in them. For I will consume them by the sword, by the famine, and by death.” 
14:13: Then I said, “O Lord, behold their prophets prophesying, and say, ‘You shall not see the sword, nor shall there be famine among you; for I will give you truth and peace in the land, and in this place.’ ” 
14:14: Then the Lord said to me, “The prophets prophesy lies in My name. I have not sent them, nor commanded them; nor have I spoken to them. Because of false visions, divinations, prophesying by the way of birds, and by the purposes of their hearts, they prophesy to you. 
14:15: Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the prophets who prophesy lies in My name: ‘I did not send them.’ They say, ‘Sword and famine shall not be upon this land.’ They shall die in the deathbed of sickness, for the prophets shall die in famine. 
14:16: The people to whom they prophesy shall be cast into the thoroughfares of Jerusalem because of the edge of the sword and famine. There shall be no one to bury them, for even their wives, sons, and daughters shall so die. I will pour out their evils upon them. 
14:17: “So you shall speak this word to them: ‘Let your eyes flow with tears night and day. Let them not cease; for in ruin, the daughter of My people was crushed to pieces, and her wound was very painful. 
14:18: If I go out into the plain, then behold, there are the soldiers wounded by the sword. If I enter into the city, then behold, there is the pain of famine, for priest and prophet have traveled to a land they do not know.’ ” 
14:19: Have You utterly rejected Judah? Has Your soul departed from Zion? Why did You strike us, and there is no healing for us? We waited for peace, but there was no good thing; for a time of healing, but behold, there was trouble. 
14:20: We know, O Lord, our sins and the wrongdoings of our fathers, for we sinned against You. 
14:21: Stop for Your name’s sake. Do not destroy the throne of Your glory. Remember, and do not break Your covenant with us. 
14:22: Is there anyone among the idols of the Gentiles able to cause rain? Or will the sky yield its fullness at their request? Are You not He? Therefore, since You made all these things, we will wait for You. 
15:1: Then the Lord said to me, “Even if Moses and Samuel stood before Me, My soul would not be favorable toward them. Send away this people, and let them depart. 
15:2: It shall be, that if they say to you, ‘Where should we depart?’ you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “As many as are for death, to death, and as many as are for the sword, to the sword, and as many as are for famine, to famine, and as many as are for captivity, to captivity.” ’ 
15:3: I will punish them in four ways,” says the Lord, “the sword for slaughter, the dogs for tearing in pieces, the wild beasts of the earth and the birds of the sky for eating and destruction. 
15:4: I will deliver them into distress, to all the kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh, son of Hezekiah the king of Judah, for all he did in Jerusalem. 
15:5: “Who will spare you, O Jerusalem? Who will fear for you? Who will turn back to ask peace for you? 
15:6: You turned away from Me,” says the Lord. “You will go backward, and I will stretch out My hand, and destroy you. I will no longer leave them unpunished. 
15:7: I will scatter them in a dispersion. In the gates of My people, they are deprived of children. They destroyed My people because of their vices. 
15:8: Their widows multiply more than the sand of the sea. I brought upon the mother of a young son misery at midday. I suddenly cast upon her trembling and anxiety. 
15:9: She who gave birth to seven has been left empty, and her soul has succumbed to misfortune. The sun set for her when it was still noonday. She was put to shame and insulted. I will give their remnant to the sword in the presence of their enemies.” 
15:10: Woe is me, my mother! You gave birth to me as a man who is condemned and at variance with the whole earth. I have neither helped anyone, nor has anyone helped me. My strength has failed among those who curse me. O Master, may this be the time of their prosperity. Surely I stood before You in the time of their calamities and in the time of their affliction for their good against the enemy. 
15:12: The Lord says, “Will iron be known? But your strength is a bronze covering. 
15:13: I will give your treasures as plunder in all your boundaries, in exchange for all your sins. 
15:14: For I will enslave you to your surrounding enemies, in a land you have not known. For a fire has been kindled from My anger, and it shall burn upon you.” 
15:15: O Lord, remember me, and visit me. Let me go unpunished because of those who persecute me. Do not bear long with them. Know how I have met with disgrace for Your sake at the hands of those who reject Your words. 
15:16: Make an end to them, and Your word shall be the gladness and joy of my heart; for I am called by Your name, O Lord, the Almighty. 
15:17: I did not sit in their council while they mocked, but I feared because of Your power. I sat alone, for I was filled with bitterness. 
15:18: Why do those who grieve me prevail against me? My wound is severe, but from where will I be healed? It has indeed become to me as deceitful water, that has no faithfulness. 
15:19: Therefore thus says the Lord: “If you return, I will restore you, and you shall stand before My face. If you bring forth what is honorable from what is unworthy, you shall be as My mouth. They shall return to you, but you shall not return to them. 
15:20: I will cause you to be like a strong brazen wall to this people. They will fight against you, but not prevail, because I am with you to save you, 
15:21: to deliver you from the hand of evil men, and to set you free from the hand of pestilent men.” 
16:1: The Lord God of Israel says, “Do not take a wife, 
16:2: nor shall you beget either a son or a daughter in this place.” 
16:3: For thus says the Lord concerning the sons and daughters begotten in this place, and their mothers who gave birth to them, and their fathers who beget them in this land: 
16:4: “They shall die by a death caused by disease, and shall not be lamented or buried; for they shall be as an example on the face of the land. They shall be for the wild beasts of the earth and the birds of heaven; and they shall fall by the sword, and die of hunger.” 
16:5: Thus says the Lord: “Do not enter their mourning feast, nor go to lament and grieve with them; for I have removed My peace from this people. 
16:6: They must not mourn, nor cut themselves; and they shall not shave themselves. 
16:7: Bread shall not be broken in mourning for them as a consolation for the dead, nor shall they give one a cup to drink as a consolation for his father and mother. 
16:8: You shall not enter their banquet-house, to sit with them, or to eat and drink.” 
16:9: For thus says the Lord God of Israel: “Behold, before your eyes and in your days, I will bring to an end from this place the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride. 
16:10: “It shall come to pass, that when you shall announce all these words to this people, and they say to you, ‘Why has the Lord pronounced all these evils against us? What is our wrongdoing, and what sin did we commit before the Lord our God?’ 
16:11: Then you shall say to them, ‘Because your fathers forsook Me,’ says the Lord, ‘for they went after foreign gods; and they served and worshiped them. They forsook Me, and did not keep My law. 
16:12: But you acted in ways more evil than your fathers; for behold, you, each one of you, walk after the evil pleasures of your heart, and do not obey Me. 
16:13: Therefore I will cast you out of this land, and into a land neither you nor your fathers know; and there you shall serve other gods, who will show you no mercy.’ 
16:14: “Therefore behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when no more will they say, ‘The Lord lives who brought up the children of Israel from the land of Egypt’ 
16:15: but, ‘The Lord lives who brought up the house of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the countries where they were driven out.’ For I will restore to them their land, which I gave to their fathers. 
16:16: “Behold, I will send many fishermen, and they will fish them. After this, I will send many hunters, and they will hunt them upon every mountain, upon every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks. 
16:17: For My eyes are on all their ways, and their wrongdoings are not concealed from My eyes. 
16:18: For I will repay double for their evil and their wrongdoings, whereby they desecrated My land with the carcasses of their abominations, and filled My inheritance with their lawlessness.” 
16:19: O Lord, my strength, my help, and my refuge in the day of evils, to You the Gentiles shall come from the ends of the earth, and say, “How false were the idols our fathers acquired for themselves, and there is nothing beneficial in them.” 
16:20: “If a man will create gods for himself,” says the Lord, “even so, they are not gods. 
16:21: Because of this, behold, I will show them My hand at this time, and make known to them My power; and they will come to know that My name is the Lord. 
17:1: “Cursed is the man who puts his hope in man, and who will strengthen the flesh of his arm in him, and withdraws in his heart from the Lord. 
17:2: For he shall be like a shrub in the desert. He shall not see when good things come, but shall dwell in salt lands along the sea and in the desert, in a salt land where no one dwells. 
17:3: But blessed is the man who puts his trust in the Lord, for the Lord shall be his hope. 
17:4: He shall be like a flourishing tree alongside the waters, which spreads its roots toward the moisture. He will not fear when the burning heat comes, for He shall be like the root in a grove in the year of drought. He shall not fear, for he shall be like a tree that does not cease yielding its fruit. 
17:5: “The heart is deep beyond all things, and it is the man. Even so, who can know him? 
17:6: I, the Lord, examine hearts, and test minds, to give each man according to his ways and the fruits of his practices. 
17:7: A partridge coos and collects eggs she did not lay. So is a man who obtains his wealth, but not with judgment. In the midst of his days, his riches will forsake him, and at the time of his end, he will be foolish.” 
17:8: An exalted throne of glory is our sanctuary. 
17:9: O Lord, the patient endurance of Israel, let all who forsake You be ashamed. “Let those who fall away from Me in apostasy be written in the earth, that they forsook the Lord, the fountain of life.” 
17:10: Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed. Save me, and I shall be saved, for You are my boast. 
17:11: Behold, they say to me, “Where is the word of the Lord? Let it come.” 
17:12: But I have not become weary in following after You, nor have I desired the day of man. You know the words that proceed from my lips are before Your face. 
17:13: Do not be as a stranger to me, and spare me in the evil day. 
17:14: Let those who persecute me be put to shame, but may I not be ashamed. May they, but not I, be terrified. Bring upon them an evil day, and crush them with a double destruction. 
17:15: Thus says the Lord: “Go and stand in the gates of the sons of your people, through which the kings of Judah come in and go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem. 
17:16: You shall say to them, ‘Hear the word of the Lord, you kings of Judah and all Judea, and all of Jerusalem, who enter by these gates. 
17:17: Thus says the Lord: “Guard your souls, and take up no burdens on the Sabbath days, neither go out through the gates of Jerusalem. 
17:18: On the Sabbath days, carry no burdens with you from your houses, nor do any work. Instead, sanctify the Sabbath days, as I commanded your fathers. But they did not hear, and did not incline their ears. 
17:19: They stiffened their neck more than their fathers, so as not to hear Me, or receive instruction. 
17:20: “Thus it shall come to pass, that if you hear Me,” says the Lord, “so as not to carry burdens through the gates of this city on the Sabbath days, but to sanctify the Sabbath days, and do no work therein, 
17:21: then there shall enter through the gates of this city kings and rulers, sitting on the throne of David, and riding in their chariots and on their horses, they and their rulers, men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. This city itself shall be inhabited forever. 
17:22: They shall come from the cities of Judah, and from around Jerusalem and the land of Benjamin, and from the lowlands and the mountains, and from the South, bringing whole burnt offerings and a sacrifice, and incense, manna and frankincense. They will bring praise to the house of the Lord. 
17:23: “But it shall come to pass, that if you will not hear Me, so as to sanctify the Sabbath days, and bear no burdens, nor enter the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath days, then I will kindle a fire in her gates. It will consume the streets of Jerusalem, and will not be quenched.” ’ ” 
18:1: The word that came from the Lord to Jeremiah, saying, 
18:2: “Arise and go down to the potter’s house. There you shall hear My words.” 
18:3: Then I went down to the potter’s house and behold, he was forming something of wet clay upon the stones. 
18:4: The vessel he formed in his hands failed. So he again made himself another vessel, as it pleased him to do. 
18:5: Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
18:6: “Surely as this potter, am I not able to form you, O house of Israel? Behold, you are as the clay of the potter in My hands. 
18:7: I shall declare a decree concerning a nation or a kingdom, to remove and destroy them. 
18:8: But if this nation turns away from all their evils, then I will repent concerning the calamities I considered to do to them. 
18:9: If I shall declare a decree concerning a nation or a kingdom, to rebuild and to plant it, 
18:10: but they do evils in My sight, so as not to hear My voice, then I will repent concerning the good I spoke to do for them. 
18:11: “Therefore now, speak to the men of Judah and those inhabiting Jerusalem for Me, saying, ‘Behold, I form calamities, and devise a plan against you. Therefore, let each turn away from his way of evil, and do good in your practices.’ ” 
18:12: But they said, “We will act like men, and walk after our inclinations, and each one of us will do the evils pleasing to his heart.” 
18:13: Therefore thus says the Lord: “Ask now of the Gentiles, ‘Who has heard of such exceedingly horrible things as what the virgin of Israel did?’ 
18:14: Will nourishing streams of water not flow from rocks or snow from Lebanon? Will water turn aside when violently pushed by the wind? 
18:15: For My people have forgotten Me. They offer incense in vain, and are sick in their ways, leaving the ancient ways to embark on impassable paths, 
18:16: so as to appoint their land for destruction and a perpetual hissing. All who pass through it shall be amazed, and shake their head. 
18:17: I will scatter them like a burning wind before the face of their enemies. I will show them the day of their destruction.” 
18:18: Then they said, “Come and let us devise a plan against Jeremiah, for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the intelligent, nor a word from the prophet. Come, and let us strike him down with the tongue, and we will hear all of his words.” 
18:19: O Lord, hear me, and give ear to the voice of my plea for what is right. 
18:20: Surely evil things are repaid for good things; for they spoke words against my soul, and concealed punishment meant for me. But remember, I stood before You to speak good things for them, so as to turn away Your wrath from them. 
18:21: Therefore give their sons to the famine, and gather them to the power of the sword. Let their wives become childless and widowed, and let their men be put to death. In war, let their young men fall by the sword. 
18:22: Let a cry be heard in their houses, for You shall bring robbers upon them suddenly; because they formed a plan to take me, and hid snares against me. 
18:23: O Lord, You know all their counsel against me, so as to put me to death. Do not let their wrongdoings go unpunished, nor blot out their sins from before Your face. Let their weakness come before You, and in the time of Your anger deal with them. 
19:1: Then the Lord said to me, “Go and obtain an earthen baked wine-jar, and you shall lead some of the elders of the people and some of their elder priests 
19:2: out to the graveyard of the sons of their children, by the entry of the Gate of Charsith. There you shall read all the words I will speak to you. 
19:3: You shall say, ‘Hear the word of the Lord, O kings and men of Judah, you inhabitants of Jerusalem and all entering by these gates. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: “Behold, I bring calamities upon this place, that whoever hears of it, both his ears will ring. 
19:4: “Because they forsook Me, and alienated this place, and offered incense in it to foreign gods, which neither they nor their fathers knew, and because the kings of Judah filled this place with the blood of the innocent 
19:5: and built high places for Baal, so as to burn up their sons in the fire, which things I did not command or speak, nor consider in My heart.” ’ 
19:6: Therefore behold, days are coming,” says the Lord, “when this place shall no longer be called the Fall, or the Graveyard of the Son of Hinnom, but the Graveyard of Slaughter. 
19:7: For I shall destroy the counsel of Judah and the counsel of Jerusalem in this place. I shall cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hands of those who seek their lives. I will give their dead as food for the birds of heaven and for the wild animals of the earth. 
19:8: I will appoint this city for desolation and for hissing. Everyone passing by it will scowl and hiss, because of all her misfortune. 
19:9: They shall eat the flesh of their sons and daughters, and each shall eat the flesh of those in the passage who are his neighbor in the blockade, and in the siege, in which their enemies shall besiege them. 
19:10: “Then you shall break the wine-jar in the sight of the men who come out with you, 
19:11: and you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord: “In this way, I will break this people and this city, as one breaks an earthen vessel which cannot be made whole again. 
19:12: Thus I will do to this place,” says the Lord, “and to those who dwell in it, so this city may be given as one that crumbles in pieces. 
19:13: Therefore the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah shall be as a place that crumbles because of the uncleanness in all their houses, where they burnt incense upon their housetops to all the host of heaven, and poured drink offerings to foreign gods.” ’ ” 
19:14: Then Jeremiah came from the place of the Fall, where the Lord sent him to prophesy. He stood in the court of the Lord’s house, and said to all the people, 
19:15: “Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I bring upon this city, and on all the cities and villages belonging to it, all the calamities I declared against it, because they hardened their neck, so as not to obey My words.’ ”
12:1: O Lord, You are righteous, that I may plead my case with You, to speak to You concerning judgments. Why does the way of the ungodly prosper, and all who deal treacherously flourish? 
12:2: You planted them, and they took root. They bear children, and are fruitful. You are near in their mouth, but far from their mind. 
12:3: But You, O Lord, know me. You have proven my heart before You. Set them apart for the day of slaughter. 
12:4: How long will the land mourn, and the grass of the field wither, because of the vices of those who dwell in it? The cattle and the birds are destroyed, because they said, “God will not see our ways.” 
12:5: “Your feet run, and grow weary. How then will you prepare yourself to run with horses? You are confident when the land is peaceful, but what will you do when the Jordan floods the land? 
12:6: But even your brothers and the house of your father dealt treacherously with you. They cried out, and gathered together in pursuit of you. Do not trust them, because they will speak fair words to you. 
12:7: “I forsook My house, and left My inheritance. I gave My beloved inheritance into the hands of its enemies. 
12:8: For My inheritance became to Me like a lion in the forest. It raised its voice against Me; therefore, I hated it. 
12:9: Is not My inheritance the cave of a hyena to Me, or a cave it walks around? Gather together all the wild beasts of the field, and let them come to devour her. 
12:10: Many shepherds destroyed My vineyard, and defiled My portion. They turned My pleasant portion into an impassable desert. It was made a complete ruin. The whole land was utterly destroyed for My sake, because there was no man who took it to heart. 
12:12: The tormentors come to every passage in the desert, because the sword of the Lord will devour from one end of the land to the other. No flesh has any peace. 
12:13: Sow fires, and reap thorns. Their portions will not profit them. Be ashamed of your boasting because of your disgrace before the Lord.”

