1:10: Then the men were exceedingly afraid, and said to him: “What is this that you did?” For the men knew he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. 
1:11: Then they said to him: “What should we do to you that the sea will calm itself for us?” For the sea continued to be tempestuous and the waves rose up even higher. 
1:12: And Jonah said to them: “Take me up and cast me into the sea, and the sea will grow calm for you, for I know this great tempest is upon you because of me.” 
1:13: And the men tried hard to return to the land, but were unable to do so, for the sea arose and grew even more tempestuous against them. 
1:14: Then they cried out to the Lord and said: “Please, O Lord, do not let us perish on account of this man’s life, nor bring righteous blood upon us; for you, O Lord, have brought this about.” 
1:15: So they took up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. 
1:16: And the men feared the Lord even more, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and vowed vows.
2:1: Now the Lord commanded a huge sea creature to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the sea creature three days and three nights. 
2:2: And from the belly of the sea creature, Jonah prayed to the Lord his God, 
2:3: and said: “I cried out in my affliction to the Lord, my God, and He heard my voice, Out of the belly of Hades, You heard the cry of my voice. 
2:4: You cast me into the depths of the heart of the sea, and rivers encompassed me; All Your surging waters and Your waves passed over me. 
2:5: And I said: ‘I have been driven away from Your sight; Shall I again look with favor toward Your holy temple?’ 
2:6: Water is poured over me, to my soul, The lowest depth encircled me; My head plunged into the clefts of the mountains. 
2:7: I descended into the earth, the bars of which are everlasting barriers; Yet let my life ascend from corruption, O Lord, my God. 
2:8: When my soul was failing from me, I remembered the Lord. May my prayer be brought to You, into Your holy temple.

