12:11: “In that day, the lamentation in Jerusalem shall be very great, like the mourning for the pomegranate orchard being cut down in the plain. 
12:12: And the land itself shall mourn throughout the tribe, the tribe of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves; the tribe of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves; 
12:13: “the tribe of the house of Levi by itself and their wives by themselves; the tribe of Symeon by itself and their wives by themselves; 
12:14: “and all the remaining tribes, every tribe by itself, and their wives by themselves.
13:1: “In that day every place shall be opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
13:2: And it shall come to pass in that day,” says the Lord of hosts, “that I will utterly destroy the names of the idols from the land, and their remembrance shall be no more. I will remove the false prophets and the unclean spirit from the land. 
13:3: “And it shall come to pass that if a man still prophesy, his father and his mother who begot him will say to him, ‘You will not live, for you spoke falsehoods in the name of the Lord,’ and his father and his mother who begot him will bind him when he prophesies. 
13:4: And it shall come to pass in that day that the prophets shall be put to shame, each by his vision when he prophesies, and they will put on a leather skin of hair because they spoke lies. 
13:5: And one will say, ‘I am not a prophet, for I am a tiller of the soil, a man brought me up thus from my youth.’ 
13:6: And I will say to him, ‘What are these wounds in the middle of your hands?’ And he will say, ‘Those with which I was wounded in the house of my beloved.’ 
13:7: “O sword, raise up against My shepherds, and against My fellow-man,” says the Lord Almighty. “Smite the shepherds, and draw out the sheep, and I shall bring My hand against the shepherds. 
13:8: And it will come to pass in all the land,” says the Lord, “two of every three will be utterly destroyed and shall die, but the other third will be left in it. 
13:9: And I shall bring the remaining third through the fire, and I shall try them as silver is tried, and I will prove them as gold itself is proven. He will call upon My name, and I will hear him, and I will say, ‘This is My people,’ and they will say, ‘The Lord is my God.’ ”
14:1: Behold, the days of the Lord come, and your plunder will be divided among you. 
14:2: And I shall gather together all the nations to war against Jerusalem. The city shall be taken, the houses plundered, the women defiled, and half of the city will go forth into exile, but the rest of My people shall not be utterly cut off from the city. 
14:3: And the Lord will go forth and prepare for battle against those nations, as in the day of His battle array in the day of war. 
14:4: And on that day His feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east. And the Mount of Olives shall be split in two, half towards the east and half towards the sea, a very great divide; and half the mountain shall lean toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
14:5: And the valley of my mountains will be blocked up, and the ravine of the mountains will be joined as far as Azal. And it will be blocked up as he had blocked it up in the days of the earthquake, in the days of Uzziah the king of Judah, and the Lord my God shall come and all the saints with Him. 
14:6: And in that day, it shall be that there will not be any light, but there shall be cold and frost 
14:7: for one day, and that day shall be known to the Lord. It will be neither a day nor a night, but towards evening there will be light. 
14:8: And in that day living water shall come forth out of Jerusalem, half of it toward the eastern sea and half toward the western sea. So it will be in both summer and spring. 
14:9: And the Lord shall be King of all the earth and in that day, the Lord shall be one Lord, and His name one name,

